The USSSA (United States Specialty Sports Association) is a volunteer, 
sports governing body, non-profit organization based in Kissimmee, Florida. 
It was founded in 1968, originally in Petersburg, Virginia. It was announced 
at the 2015 National Conference that USSSA would be moving to a new headquarters 
in 2017. Space Coast Stadium in Viera, FL will become the new headquarters 
on Florida's Space Coast beginning in the spring of 2017. USSSA will be 
taking over the Space Coast Stadium complex from the Washington Nationals 
baseball club. An additional 8 multi-purpose all turf fields will join 
the existing 7 fields to bring to a total of 15 fields plus the stadium. 
The new facility will feature an 18,000 square foot building next to the 
quad that will host the USSSA National Hall of Fame and Sports Museum. 
Originally USSSA stood for United States Slow-pitch Softball Association. 
However, in 1998 USSSA rebranded the name to United States Specialty Sports 
Association and expanded into other sports including youth girls fast-pitch 
and boys baseball. Currently USSSA governs 13 sports across the US, Puerto 
Rico, various US Military bases, and Canada and has a membership of over 
3.7 million. The USSSA organization was formed in the spring of 1968 after 
the founder's ideas were turned down at a different national softball association's 
national meeting. The founders of the organization are Robert Mueller, 
James DiOrio, Ray Ernst, Frank Ciaccia and Ted Mazza. They used their newly 
formed organization to implement new developments. These developments include 
longer fences, 65 foot base paths, a smaller batter's box, widened media 
coverage, and encouraged greater financial support.[1] Their experimental 
world tournament in 1968 was a success. There were 50 different teams from 
15 states. That first decade was a turbulent one. As teams flocked to the 
new association with progressive ideas, the older organization enacted 
policies designed to keep teams from participating in USSSA sanctioned 
events. The battle ended up in a Federal courtroom in Nashville, TN where 
USSSA prevailed but not until after a long and expensive ordeal. By 1971, 
USSSA was struggling in debt and directors began resigning. In the fall 
of that year, a historic meeting was held in Petersburg, Va for discussions 
on whether or not to abandon their efforts. The decision was made to move 
forward and the Executive Board elected 40 year old Al Ramsey of Petersburg,Va 
as Chief Executive Officer. The constitution was completely overhauled 
and Ramsey instructed the board to pledge itself to operate on a sound 
business basis and launch an all-out campaign for new qualified personnel. 
The USSSA National Headquarters was incorporated in the state of Virginia 
as a non-profit organization. The following year, 30 new directors were 
replaced and 60 new directors were appointed. In less than a year, the 
association was completely out of debt and operating on a sound financial 
basis. Team and umpire registrations began to show considerable increases. 
The 1972 National Meeting was held in Rochester, NY and some 75 directors 
attended. USSSA grew by leaps and bounds throughout the 1970s and '80s, 
adding new programs such as Church, Corporate, Women's, Mixed and multi 
levels of Men's play, along with structured Divisions such as Central, 
Southern, and Midwest. In 1981, USSSA purchased a 24,000 square foot building 
in Petersburg for its National Headquarters and Hall of Fame Museum. The 
support of fund raising campaigns throughout the entire association made 
the purchase a realty. The Divisional Meeting concept was introduced and 
the Masters program was added. By 1987, USSSA passed 100,000 teams in total 
membership and the association voted to expand to eight divisions directed 
by four regions, with a major realignment plan to meet future growth needs. 
In 1997, the USSSA became the first multi-sports governing body.[2] Currently 
the USSSA is the largest multi-sport governing body in the World. USSSA 
offers programs and tournaments in Baseball, Basketball, Fastpitch, Flag 
Football, Golf, Martial Arts, Lacrosse, Soccer, Slow-Pitch, and Volleyball. 
