Gerald Ford Republican Jimmy Carter Democratic The United States presidential 
election of 1976 was the 48th quadrennial presidential election, held on 
Tuesday, November 2, 1976. The winner was the relatively unknown former 
Governor of Georgia Jimmy Carter, the Democratic candidate, over the incumbent 
President Gerald Ford, the Republican candidate. President Richard Nixon 
had resigned in 1974 in the wake of the Watergate scandal, but before doing 
so, he appointed Ford as Vice President via the 25th Amendment after Spiro 
Agnew resigned in the light of a scandal that implicated him in receiving 
illegal bribes while serving as Governor of Maryland. Ford was thus the 
only sitting President who had never been elected to national office. Saddled 
with a poor economy, the fall of South Vietnam, and paying a heavy political 
price for his pardon of Nixon, Ford first faced serious opposition from 
within his own party, when he was challenged for the Republican Party's 
nomination by former California governor and future President Ronald Reagan. 
The race was so close that Ford was unable to secure the nomination until 
the Party Convention. Carter, who was less well known than other Democratic 
hopefuls, ran as a Washington outsider and reformer. He narrowly won the 
election, becoming the first president elected from the Deep South since 
Zachary Taylor in 1848. The 1976 election was also the last election to 
date in which a Democratic candidate garnered Texas' electoral votes. It 
was also a notable election as all four presidential and vice-presidential 
candidates would ultimately lose a presidential election. Ford lost this 
year's election and Carter failed in his bid for re-election in 1980; Mondale 
lost the 1984 election to Ronald Reagan in a landslide, and Dole lost his 
1996 bid to Bill Clinton. As Carter and both vice-presidential nominees, 
Dole and Mondale, are still alive, the 1976 election is also the earliest 
American presidential election for which at least one major-party nominee 
is still living. Democratic candidates The surprise winner of the 1976 
Democratic presidential nomination was Jimmy Carter, a former state senator 
and governor of Georgia. When the primaries began, Carter was little-known 
at the national level, and many political pundits regarded a number of 
better-known candidates, such as Senator Henry M. Jackson of Washington, 
Congressman Morris Udall of Arizona, Governor George Wallace of Alabama, 
and California Governor Jerry Brown, as the favorites for the nomination. 
However, in the wake of the Watergate scandal, Carter realized that his 
status as a Washington outsider, political centrist, and moderate reformer 
could give him an advantage over his better-known establishment rivals. 
Carter also took advantage of the record number of state primaries and 
caucuses in 1976 to eliminate his better-known rivals one-by-one. Senator 
Jackson made a fateful decision not to compete in the early Iowa caucus 
and New Hampshire primary, which Jimmy Carter won after liberals split 
their votes among four other candidates. Though Jackson went on to win 
the Massachusetts and New York primaries, he was forced to quit the race 
on May 1 after losing the critical Pennsylvania primary to Carter by twelve 
percentage points. Carter then defeated Governor Wallace, his main conservative 
challenger, by a wide margin in the North Carolina primary, thus forcing 
Wallace to end his campaign. Congressman Udall, a liberal, then became 
Carter's main challenger. He finished second to Carter in the New Hampshire, 
Massachusetts, Wisconsin, New York, Michigan, South Dakota, and Ohio primaries, 
and won the caucuses in his home state of Arizona, while running even with 
Carter in the New Mexico caucuses. However, the fact that Udall finished 
second to Carter in most of these races meant that Carter steadily accumulated 
more delegates for the nomination than he did. As Carter closed in on the 
nomination, an "ABC" (Anybody But Carter) movement started among Northern 
and Western liberal Democrats who worried that Carter's Southern upbringing 
would make him too conservative for the Democratic Party. The leaders of 
the "ABC" movement - Idaho Senator Frank Church and California Governor 
Jerry Brown - both announced their candidacies for the Democratic nomination 
and defeated Carter in several late primaries. However, their campaigns 
started too late to prevent Carter from gathering the remaining delegates 
he needed to capture the nomination. By June 1976, Carter had captured 
more than enough delegates to win the Democratic nomination. At the 1976 
Democratic National Convention, Carter easily won the nomination on the 
first ballot; Udall finished in second place. Carter then chose Minnesota 
Senator Walter Mondale, a liberal and political protégé of Hubert Humphrey, 
as his running mate. Republican candidates The contest for the Republican 
Party's presidential nomination in 1976 was between two serious candidates: 
Gerald Ford, the leader of the Republican Party's moderate wing and the 
incumbent president, from Michigan; and Ronald Reagan, the leader of the 
Republican Party's conservative wing and the former two-term governor of 
California. The presidential primary campaign between the two men was hard-fought 
and relatively even; by the start of the Republican Convention in August 
1976, the race for the nomination was still too close to call. Ford defeated 
Reagan by a narrow margin on the first ballot at the 1976 Republican National 
Convention in Kansas City, and chose Senator Bob Dole of Kansas as his 
running mate in place of incumbent Vice-President Nelson Rockefeller, who 
had announced the previous year that he was not interested in being considered 
for the Vice Presidential nomination.[2] The 1976 Republican Convention 
was the last political convention to open with the presidential nomination 
still being undecided until the actual balloting at the convention. One 
of the advantages Ford held over Carter as the general election campaign 
began was that, as president, he was privileged to preside over events 
dealing with the United States Bicentennial; this often resulted in favorable 
publicity for Ford. The Washington, D.C., fireworks display on the Fourth 
of July was presided over by the president and televised nationally.[3] 
On July 7, 1976, the president and First Lady served as hosts at a White 
House state dinner for Elizabeth II and Prince Philip of the United Kingdom, 
which was televised on the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) network. These 
events were part of Ford's "Rose Garden" strategy to win the election; 
instead of appearing as a typical politician, Ford presented himself as 
a "tested leader" who was busily fulfilling the role of national leader 
and Chief Executive. Not until October did Ford leave the White House to 
campaign actively across the nation. Jimmy Carter ran as a reformer who 
was "untainted" by Washington political scandals,[4] which many voters 
found attractive in the wake of the Watergate scandal that had led to President 
Richard Nixon's resignation. Ford, although personally unconnected with 
Watergate, was seen by many as too close to the discredited Nixon administration, 
especially after he granted Nixon a presidential pardon for any crimes 
he might have committed during his term of office. Ford's pardon of Nixon 
caused his popularity, as measured by public-opinion polls, to plummet. 
Ford's refusal to explain his reasons for pardoning Nixon publicly (he 
would do so in his memoirs several years later), also hurt his image. Ford 
unsuccessfully asked Congress to end the 1950s-era price controls on natural 
gas, which caused a dwindling of American natural gas reserves after the 
1973 Oil Crisis.[5] Carter stated during his campaign that he opposed the 
ending of the price controls and thought such a move would be "disastrous."[5] 
After the Democratic National Convention, Carter held a huge 33-point lead 
over Ford in the polls. However, as the campaign continued, the race greatly 
tightened. During the campaign Playboy magazine published a controversial 
interview with Carter; in the interview, Carter admitted to having "lusted 
in my heart" for women other than his wife, which cut into his support 
among women and evangelical Christians.[6] Also, on September 23, Ford 
performed well in what was the first televised presidential debate since 
1960. Polls taken after the debate showed that most viewers felt that Ford 
was the winner. Carter was also hurt by Ford's charges that he lacked the 
necessary experience to be an effective national leader, and that Carter 
was vague on many issues. However, Ford also committed a costly blunder 
in the campaign that halted his momentum. During the second presidential 
debate on October 6, Ford stumbled when he asserted that "there is no Soviet 
domination of Eastern Europe and there never will be under a Ford administration." 
He added that he did not "believe that the Poles consider themselves dominated 
by the Soviet Union", and made the same claim with regards to Yugoslavia 
and Romania.[7] (Yugoslavia was not a Warsaw Pact member.) Ford refused 
to retract his statement for almost a week after the debate; as a result 
his surge in the polls stalled and Carter was able to maintain a slight 
lead in the polls. A vice-presidential debate, the first ever formal one 
of its kind,[8] between Bob Dole and Walter Mondale also hurt the Republican 
ticket when Dole asserted that military unpreparedness on the part of Democratic 
presidents was responsible for all of the wars the U.S. had fought in the 
20th century. Dole, a World War II veteran, noted that in every 20th-century 
war from World War I to the Vietnam War, a Democrat had been President. 
Dole then pointed out that the number of U.S. casualties in "Democrat wars" 
was roughly equal to the population of Detroit. Many voters felt that Dole's 
criticism was unfairly harsh and that his dispassionate delivery made him 
seem cold. Years later, Dole would remark that he regretted the comment, 
having viewed it as hurting the Republican ticket.[9] One factor which 
did help Ford in the closing days of the campaign was a series of popular 
television appearances he did with Joe Garagiola, Sr., a retired baseball 
star for the St. Louis Cardinals and a well-known announcer for NBC Sports. 
Garagiola and Ford appeared in a number of shows in several large cities. 
During the show Garagiola would ask Ford questions about his life and beliefs; 
the shows were so informal, relaxed, and laid-back that some television 
critics labelled them the "Joe and Jerry Show." Ford and Garagiola obviously 
enjoyed one another's company, and they remained friends after the election 
was over. Despite his campaign's blunders, Ford managed to close the remaining 
gap in the polls and by election day the race was judged to be even. Election 
day was November 2, and it took most of that night and the following morning 
to determine the winner. It wasn't until 3:30 am (EST), that the NBC television 
network was able to pronounce that Carter had carried Mississippi, and 
had thus accumulated more than the 270 electoral votes needed to win (seconds 
later, ABC News also declared Carter the winner based on projections for 
Carter in Wisconsin and Hawaii; CBS News announced Carter's victory at 
3:45 am).[10] Carter defeated Ford by two percentage points in the national 
popular vote. The electoral vote was the closest since 1916; Carter carried 
23 states with 297 electoral votes, while Ford won 27 states and 240 electoral 
votes (one elector from Washington state, pledged to Ford, voted for Reagan). 
Carter's victory came primarily from his near-sweep of the South (he lost 
only Virginia and Oklahoma) and his narrow victories in large Northern 
states such as New York, Ohio, and Pennsylvania. Ford did well in the West, 
carrying every state except Hawaii. The most tightly contested state in 
the election was Oregon, which Ford won by a very narrow margin. A switch 
of 3,687 votes in Hawaii and 5,559 votes in Ohio from Carter to Ford would 
have resulted in Ford winning the election with 270 electoral votes.[11] 
By percentage of the vote, the states that secured Carter's victory were 
Wisconsin (1.68% margin) and Ohio (.27% margin). Had Ford won these states 
and all other states he carried, he would have won the presidency. The 
27 states Ford won were and remain the most states ever carried by a losing 
candidate for president of the United States. Carter was the first Democrat 
since John F. Kennedy in 1960 to carry the states of the Deep South -- 
Bill Clinton is the only Democrat since 1976 to carry more than one state 
from the Deep South, doing so in both 1992 and 1996 -- and the first since 
Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964 to carry a majority of all southern states. Carter 
performed very strongly in his home state of Georgia, carrying 66.7% of 
the vote and every county in the state. His 50.1% of the vote was the only 
time since 1964 that a Democrat managed to obtain an absolute majority 
of the popular vote in a presidential election until Barack Obama won 52.9% 
of the vote in 2008. Carter is one of five Democrats since the American 
Civil War to obtain an absolute majority of the popular vote, the others 
being Samuel J. Tilden, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Lyndon B. Johnson, and Barack 
Obama.[12] Had Ford won the election, the provisions of the 22nd amendment 
would have disqualified him from running in 1980, because he had served 
more than two years of Nixon's second term. This election represents the 
last time to date that Texas, Mississippi, Alabama, or South Carolina would 
vote Democratic, and the last time North Carolina would vote Democratic 
until 2008. Source (Popular Vote): Leip, David. "1976 Presidential Election 
Results". Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections. Retrieved August 
7, 2005.  Source (Electoral Vote): "Electoral College Box Scores 1789–1996". 
National Archives and Records Administration. Retrieved August 7, 2005.  
(a) Mike Padden, a Republican faithless elector from Washington, gave Ronald 
Reagan one electoral vote. (b) The running mate of McCarthy varied from 
state to state. (c) Research has not yet determined whether Anderson's 
home state was Tennessee or Texas at the time of the 1976 election. Results 
by county, shaded according to winning candidate's percentage of the vote 
[13] As of 2012, this election represents the second and last time that 
the winning candidate has received a majority of the electoral votes although 
the second-place candidate carried a majority of the states. It had previously 
happened in the 1960 election. States where margin of victory was under 
5% (299 electoral votes): States where margin of victory was more than 
5%, but less than 10% (105 electoral votes): Source: CBS News/ New York 
Times interviews with 12,782 voters as they left the polls, as reported 
in the New York Times, November 9, 1980, p. 28, and in further analysis. 
