The United States of America have sent athletes to every celebration of 
the modern Olympic Games, except the 1980 Summer Olympics, during which 
it led a boycott. The United States Olympic Committee (USOC) is the National 
Olympic Committee for the United States. U.S. athletes have won a total 
of 2,520 medals (1,022 of them being gold) at the Summer Olympic Games 
and another 282 at the Winter Olympic Games. Most medals have been won 
in athletics (track and field) (767, 32%) and swimming (520, 22%). Thomas 
Burke was the first athlete to represent the United States at the Olympics. 
He took first place in both the 100 meters and the 400 meters of the 1896 
Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece. American track and field athlete James 
Connolly was the first modern Olympic champion. He took first place in 
the triple jump which was the first opening day final event at the 1896 
Summer Olympics. American swimmer Michael Phelps is the most-decorated 
Olympic athlete of any nation, with 28 medals (including 23 golds). The 
United States has won gold at every games at which it has competed, more 
gold and overall medals than any other country in the Summer Games and 
also has the second-most gold and overall medals at the Winter Games, trailing 
only Norway. From the mid-20th century to the late 1980s, the United States 
mainly competed with the Soviet Union at Summer Games and with the Soviet 
Union, Norway, and East Germany at the Winter Games. However, after the 
dissolution of the Soviet Union, it now primarily contends with China at 
the Summer Games for both the overall medal count and the gold medal count 
and with Norway at the winter Games for the overall medal count. The United 
States has topped the total medal count at two winter Olympics: 1932 in 
Lake Placid and 2010 in Vancouver. At the 2010 games, the United States 
set a record for the most total medals (37) of any country at a single 
Winter Olympics. The United States have hosted the Games on eight occasions, 
more than any other country: Updated on March 1, 2014 *This table does 
not include two medals – one silver awarded in the ice hockey and one bronze 
awarded in the figure skating events at the 1920 Summer Olympics. Updated 
on March 1, 2014 *This table includes two medals – one silver awarded in 
the ice hockey and one bronze awarded in the figure skating events at the 
