The United States national cricket team represents the United States in 
international cricket. The team is organised by the United States of America 
Cricket Association (USACA), which became a member of the International 
Cricket Council (ICC) in 1965. However, the organisation has had its membership 
suspended since 2015 following the ICC's concerns about the USACA's governance 
and finances.[1] A U.S. representative team was a participant in the first 
international cricket match, played against Canada in 1844. However, until 
the late 20th century the U.S. national team made only infrequent appearances 
against other international teams, generally only playing against Canada 
(in the annual Auty Cup) or against touring teams. The U.S. made its international 
tournament debut at the 1979 ICC Trophy in England, and since then has 
missed only two editions of the tournament (now known as the World Cup 
Qualifier). After winning the 2004 ICC Six Nations Challenge, the team 
qualified for the 2004 ICC Champions Trophy, playing its sole One Day International 
(ODI) matches to date. In the World Cricket League, the U.S. has qualified 
for the 2016 Division Four tournament. The team's current head coach is 
Pubudu Dassanayake. The British brought cricket to the Thirteen Colonies 
in the early 18th century. Cricket further grew in the 18th century.[2] 
It is understood from anecdotal evidence that George Washington was a strong 
supporter of cricket, participating on at least one occasion in a game 
of cricket with his troops at Valley Forge during the American Revolution.[3] 
John Adams was recorded as saying in Congress that if leaders of cricket 
clubs could be called "presidents", there was no reason why the leader 
of the new nation could not be called the same.[4] In 1844, the United 
States participated in the first international cricket match. This was 
played against Canada at the St George's Cricket Club Ground, Bloomingdale 
Park, New York.[5] This first international sporting event was attended 
by 20,000 people and established the longest international sporting rivalry 
in the modern era.[6] Wagers of around $120,000 were placed on the outcome 
of the match. This is equivalent to around $1.5 million in 2007.[7][8] 
Sides from England toured North America (taking in both the USA and Canada) 
following the English cricket seasons of 1859, 1868 and 1872. These were 
organized as purely commercial ventures. Most of the matches of these early 
touring teams were played "against odds", that is to say the home team 
was permitted to have more than eleven players (usually twenty-two) in 
order to make a more even contest.[9] In spite of cricket's popularity 
in the 18th and early 19th centuries, the game was supplanted by baseball 
in the 1850s and 1860s. As interest in baseball rose, the rules of that 
game were changed slightly to increase its popularity. For example, easily 
manufactured round bats were introduced to contrast the flat bats of cricket.[10] 
Another reason for cricket's decline in popularity may be that in the late 
19th century American cricket remained an amateur sport reserved for the 
wealthy while England and Australia were developing a professional version 
of the game. As cricket standards improved with professionalism elsewhere 
in the world many North American cricket clubs stayed stubbornly elitist. 
Clubs such as Philadelphia and Merion abandoned cricket and converted their 
facilities to other sports. Some city cricket clubs unknowingly contributed 
to their own demise by sponsoring auxiliary baseball teams.[citation needed] 
By 1900 baseball had taken over the American scene and created its independent 
mythology.[citation needed] The formation of the Imperial Cricket Conference 
in 1909 also helped to keep the popularity of the game down. It certainly 
undercut any momentum to professionalize cricket in the USA, although whether 
the momentum would have developed even in the presence of a more open ICC 
remains a question.[5] Regardless of its cause, the game did not flourish 
in the United States the way it did in the British Empire. From the 1880s 
until the outbreak of World War I, the American game was dominated not 
by the national side, but by an amateur team from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
The Philadelphian cricket team was a team that represented Philadelphia 
in first-class cricket between 1878 and 1913. Even though the United States 
had played the first ever international cricket match against Canada in 
1844, the sport began a slow decline in the country.[11] This decline was 
furthered by the rise in popularity of baseball. In Philadelphia, however, 
the sport remained very popular and from the end of the 19th century until 
the outbreak of World War I, the city produced a first class team that 
rivaled many others in the world. The team was composed of players from 
the four chief cricket clubs in Philadelphia–Germantown, Merion, Belmont, 
and Philadelphia. Players from smaller clubs, such as Tioga and Moorestown, 
and local colleges, such as Haverford and Penn, also played for the Philadelphians. 
Over its 35 years, the team played in 89 first-class cricket matches. Of 
those, 29 were won, 46 were lost, 13 were drawn and one game was abandoned 
before completion.[12] Arguably, the greatest American cricketer ever played 
for Philadelphia during this period. John Barton King was a very skilled 
batsman, but really proved his worth as a bowler. During his career, he 
set numerous records in North America and at least one first-class bowling 
record.[13] He competed with and succeeded against the best cricketers 
in the world from England and Australia. King was the dominant bowler on 
his team when it toured England in 1897, 1903, and 1908. He dismissed batsmen 
with his unique delivery, which he called "the angler", and helped to perfect 
swing bowling in the sport. Many of the great bowlers of today still use 
the strategies and techniques that he developed.[14] Sir Pelham Warner 
described Bart King as one of the finest bowlers of all time,[15] and Donald 
Bradman called him "America's greatest cricketing son."[16] On June 28, 
1913 the Philadelphians played the last first-class game on the mainland 
for more than 90 years. Games were played in the US Virgin Islands in the 
interim, which is considered as part of the West Indies by the ICC. The 
team had played an American national side 6 times between 1885 and 1894. 
The United States team won one of these matches, lost two, and earned a 
draw in three. Cricket remained a minor pastime in the United States until 
the mid-1960s, when ICC reforms allowed associate members to join. In 1965, 
Clifford Severn made his USA debut at 39, alongside his young brother Winston, 
in a two-day match against Canada at Calgary's Riley Park as part of the 
longest running international rivalry in international cricket, now known 
as the Auty Cup. A year later in the return contest at the C Aubrey Smith 
field in Los Angeles, USA won by 54 runs.[17] In 1965, the Imperial Cricket 
Conference changed its name to the International Cricket Conference. In 
addition, new rules were adopted to permit the election of countries from 
outside the Commonwealth. This led to the expansion of the Conference, 
with the admission of Associate Members, including the United States. Today 
cricket is played in all fifty states.[18] The USA have played in every 
edition of the ICC Trophy, though they didn't pass the first round until 
the 1990 tournament in the Netherlands. They reached the plate final of 
the 1994 tournament, but opted not to play due to prior travel arrangements. 
They finished twelfth in 1997. USA finished sixth in the 2001 ICC Trophy, 
their best performance to date. They have also played in every edition 
of the ICC Americas Championship, winning in 2002.[19] In 2004, the United 
States cricket team played a first-class match as part of the first ICC 
Intercontinental Cup. The matches against Canada and Bermuda were the first 
in many years.[19] The team won the ICC 6 Nations Challenge beating Scotland, 
Namibia, the Netherlands, and the UAE on net run rate by 0.028 of a run.[20] 
Winning the ICC Six Nations meant that they qualified for the ICC Champions 
Trophy 2004 in England. Here the USA played their first ever One Day International 
match against New Zealand at The Oval on September 10, 2004.[21] The US 
side was beaten by New Zealand and lost to Australia in the tournament, 
as well.[22] The 2005 ICC Trophy represented a chance for the USA to re-establish 
themselves on the world stage and qualify for the 2007 World Cup. A poor 
showing saw them finish at the bottom of their group, with four losses 
and a match abandoned due to rain from their five group fixtures. This 
failure robbed the USA of the prize of full One Day International status 
on offer to the World Cup qualifiers.[19] This failure was compounded on 
August 9, 2005 when the ICC expelled the USA from the 2005 ICC Intercontinental 
Cup.[23] The USA made their return to international cricket in August 2006 
when they participated in Division One of the ICC Americas Championship 
in Canada.[24] They finished second in the five team tournament.[25] In 
May 2007 the USA were to visit Darwin, Australia to take part in Division 
Three of the ICC World Cricket League.[26] A top two finish in this tournament 
would have qualified them for Division Two of the same tournament later 
in the year.[26] Unfortunately, the United States of America Cricket Association 
was suspended from the ICC and the team was pulled from this competition.[27] 
The suspension was due to an internal dispute over a constitution for the 
USACA. The dispute was resolved in early 2008, and the suspension was lifted 
on April 1 of that year. The team's reinstatement permitted them to enter 
the World Cricket League in Division Five for 2008 in Jersey. The team 
made it through the Group Stage tied for first in their division with a 
4–0–0 record (one match abandoned),[28] but lost both their semi-final 
match with Jersey and their third-place play-off with Nepal.[29] USA finished 
second in the 2010 Division Five after losing the final against Nepal and 
won promotion to 2010 Division Four. They continued their climb in more 
emphatic style by finishing first in 2010 Division Four, demolishing Italy 
in the final. They were promoted to 2011 Division Three where they took 
last place and were relegated to 2012 Division Four. There they finished 
in second place, and were promoted back to 2013 Division Three. They remained 
in Division Three after finishing in third place, but were relegated after 
finishing fifth in 2014 Division Three. Next up for them will be 2016 Division 
Four On June 26th, 2015, the ICC again suspended USACA, this time because 
an ICC review "had expressed significant concerns about the governance, 
finance, reputation and cricketing activities of USACA". This suspension 
does not impact the National Team playing Matches, but instead cuts off 
ICC funding and stops USACA from being able to approve any events held 
in the USA (although the ICC can still approve events held in the United 
States). This suspension will be upheld until USACA can show the ICC that 
"conditions relating to governance, finance and its cricket activities" 
have improved.[1] ICC Twenty20 Americas Championship The only U.S. cricket 
stadium to meet international standards is Central Broward Regional Park 
in Lauderhill, Florida. Another well-established facility that has hosted 
international cricket is Leo Magnus Cricket Complex in Los Angeles. A facility 
in Indianapolis called the Indianapolis World Sports Park opened in 2014. 
Seven players have represented the United States as captain. The first 
captain of the USA was Anil Kashkari in 1979. He captained the team through 
three matches, two of which the USA won. Richard Staple is the only USA 
captain to captain the side in a One day international, which occurred 
in 2004. The USA lost both matches. Overall with Staple as captain the 
USA played 16 matches, of which they won four and lost twelve. After Staple 
retired in 2005 Steve Massiah was given the captaincy. For the 2012 ICC 
World Twenty20 Qualifier the captaincy was given to Sushil Nadkarni. In 
October 2013, Neil McGarrell was named USA's captain in a 15-man squad 
for the 2013 ICC World Twenty20 Qualifier in the UAE. McGarrell had played 
four Tests and 17 ODIs for West Indies between 1998 and 2001. He made his 
debut for USA in 2012 against Canada and takes over from Steve Massiah 
