Lyndon B. Johnson Democratic Richard Nixon Republican The United States 
presidential election of 1968 was the 46th quadrennial presidential election, 
held on Tuesday, November 5, 1968. The Republican nominee, former Vice 
President Richard Nixon, won the election over the Democratic nominee, 
incumbent Vice President Hubert Humphrey. Analysts have argued the election 
of 1968 was a major realigning election as it permanently disrupted the 
New Deal Coalition that had dominated presidential politics for 36 years. 
The election year was tumultuous; it was marked by the assassination of 
civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr., subsequent race riots across 
the nation, the assassination of Democratic presidential candidate Robert 
F. Kennedy and widespread opposition to the Vietnam War across university 
campuses. Incumbent President Lyndon B. Johnson, who had won a landslide 
victory for the Democratic Party four years earlier, declined to seek election 
amid growing discontent over the Vietnam War and his worse-than-expected 
showing in the New Hampshire primary. The 1968 Democratic National Convention 
was a scene of violent confrontations between police and anti-war protesters 
as the Democrats split into multiple factions. Richard Nixon ran on a campaign 
that promised to restore law and order to the nation's cities and provide 
new leadership in the Vietnam War. A year later, he would popularize the 
term "silent majority" to describe those he viewed as being his target 
voters. Nixon won the popular vote by a narrow margin of 0.7 percentage 
point, but won easily in the Electoral College, 301–191. The election also 
featured a strong third party effort by former Alabama Governor George 
Wallace, a vocal advocate for racial segregation in public schools. He 
carried several states in the Deep South and ran well in some ethnic enclave 
industrial districts in the North. This is the most recent election where 
at least one state was carried by a third-party candidate. This was the 
first election after the passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, which 
had led to mass enfranchisement of racial minorities throughout the country, 
especially in the South. It was the last election in which New York had 
the most votes in the electoral college (43 votes). After the 1970 census, 
California gained the most electoral votes and has remained the most populous 
state since then. In the election of 1964, incumbent Democrat Lyndon B. 
Johnson won the largest popular vote landslide in U.S. Presidential election 
history over Republican Barry Goldwater. During the presidential term that 
followed, Johnson was able to achieve many political successes, including 
the passage of the Great Society domestic programs (including "War on Poverty" 
legislation), landmark civil rights legislation, and the continued exploration 
of space. At the same time, however, the country endured large-scale race 
riots in the streets of its larger cities, along with a generational revolt 
of young people and violent debates over foreign policy. The emergence 
of the hippie counterculture, the rise of New Left activism, and the emergence 
of the Black Power movement exacerbated social and cultural clashes between 
classes, generations, and races. Adding to the national crisis, on April 
4, 1968, civil rights leader Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr., was assassinated, 
igniting further mass rioting and chaos, including Washington, D.C., where 
there was rioting within just a few blocks of the White House and machine 
guns were stationed on the Capitol steps to protect it.[3] The most important 
reason for the precipitous decline of President Johnson's popularity was 
the Vietnam War, which he greatly escalated during his time in office. 
By late 1967, over 500,000 American soldiers were fighting in Vietnam. 
Draftees made up 42 percent of the military in Vietnam, but suffered 58% 
of the casualties as nearly 1000 Americans a month were killed and many 
more were injured.[4] Johnson's position was particularly damaged when 
the national news media began to focus on the high costs and ambiguous 
results of escalation, despite his repeated efforts to downplay the seriousness 
of the situation. In early January 1968, Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara 
stated that the war would be winding down as the North Vietnamese were 
losing their will to fight, but shortly thereafter, they launched the Tet 
Offensive, in which the North Vietnamese and Communist Vietcong forces 
launched simultaneous attacks on all government strongholds in South Vietnam. 
Though a U.S. military victory, Tet led many Americans to ponder whether 
the war was winnable or worth it. In addition, voters felt they could not 
trust their government's assessment and reporting of the war effort. The 
Pentagon called for sending several hundred thousand more soldiers to Vietnam. 
Johnson's approval ratings fell below 35%, and the Secret Service refused 
to let the president make public appearances on the campuses of American 
colleges and universities, due to his extreme unpopularity among college 
students. The Secret Service also prevented Johnson from appearing at the 
1968 Democratic National Convention in Chicago, because it could not guarantee 
his safety from assassination.[5] Vice President Hubert Humphrey Senator 
Robert F. Kennedy from New York (Assassinated June 6, 1968) Senator Eugene 
McCarthy from Minnesota Senator George McGovern from South Dakota President 
Lyndon B. Johnson (Withdrew Mar 31, 1968) (Endorsed Hubert Humphrey) Because 
Lyndon Johnson had been elected to the presidency only once, in 1964, and 
had served less than two full years of the term before that, the 22nd Amendment 
did not disqualify him from running for another term;[6][7] Johnson had 
served only 12 months following the assassination of John F. Kennedy before 
being elected in 1964 to a full term. As a result, it was widely assumed 
when 1968 began that President Johnson would run for another term, and 
that he would have little trouble winning the Democratic nomination. Despite 
growing opposition to Johnson's policies in Vietnam, it appeared that no 
prominent Democratic candidate would run against a sitting president of 
his own party. It was also accepted at the beginning of the year that Johnson's 
record of domestic accomplishments would overshadow public opposition to 
the Vietnam War and that he would easily boost his public image after he 
started campaigning.[8] Even Senator Robert F. Kennedy of New York, an 
outspoken critic of Johnson's policies with a large base of support, initially 
declined to run against Johnson in the primaries. Poll numbers also suggested 
that a large share of Americans who opposed the Vietnam War felt the growth 
of the anti-war hippie movement among younger Americans was not helping 
their cause.[8] On January 30, however, claims by the Johnson administration 
that a recent troop surge would soon bring an end to the war were severely 
discredited when the Tet Offensive broke out. While the American military 
was eventually able to fend off the attacks, and also inflict heavy losses 
among the communist opposition, the ability of the North Vietnamese Army 
and Viet Cong to launch large scale attacks during the Tet Offensive's 
long duration greatly weakened American support for the military draft 
and further combat operations in Vietnam.[9] In time, only Senator Eugene 
McCarthy of Minnesota proved willing to challenge Johnson openly. Running 
as an anti-war candidate in the New Hampshire primary, McCarthy hoped to 
pressure the Democrats into publicly opposing the Vietnam War. Since New 
Hampshire was the first presidential primary of 1968, McCarthy poured most 
of his limited resources into the state. He was boosted by thousands of 
young college students led by youth coordinator Sam Brown,[10] who shaved 
their beards and cut their hair to be "Clean for Gene". These students 
organized get-out-the-vote drives, rang doorbells, distributed McCarthy 
buttons and leaflets, and worked hard in New Hampshire for McCarthy. On 
March 12, McCarthy won 42 percent of the primary vote to Johnson's 49 percent, 
a shockingly strong showing against an incumbent president. Even more impressively, 
since Johnson had more than 24 supporters running for the Democratic National 
Convention delegate slots to be filled in the election, while McCarthy's 
campaign organized more strategically, McCarthy won 20 of the 24 delegates. 
This gave McCarthy's campaign legitimacy and momentum. Sensing Johnson's 
vulnerability, Senator Robert F. Kennedy announced his candidacy four days 
after the New Hampshire primary. Thereafter, McCarthy and Kennedy engaged 
in a series of state primaries. Kennedy won most of the primaries in which 
he and McCarthy were in direct competition. On March 31, 1968, following 
the New Hampshire primary and Kennedy's entry into the election, the president 
announced to the nation in a televised speech that he was suspending all 
bombing of North Vietnam in favor of peace talks. Johnson concluded his 
speech and startled the nation by announcing "With America's sons in the 
fields far away, with America's future under challenge right here at home, 
with our hopes and the world's hopes for peace in the balance every day, 
I do not believe that I should devote an hour or a day of my time to any 
personal partisan causes or to any duties other than the awesome duties 
of this office—the presidency of your country. Accordingly, I shall not 
seek, and I will not accept, the nomination of my party for another term 
as your President." Not discussed publicly at the time was Johnson's concern 
he might not survive another term—Johnson's health was poor, and he had 
suffered a serious heart attack in 1955 while serving in the U.S. Senate. 
Indeed, he died on January 22, 1973, only two days after the new presidential 
term concluded. Bleak political forecasts also contributed to Johnson's 
withdrawal; internal polling by Johnson's campaign in Wisconsin, the next 
state to hold a primary election, showed the President trailing badly. 
Historians have debated just why Johnson quit a few days after his weak 
showing in New Hampshire. Jeff Shesol says Johnson wanted out of the White 
House but also wanted vindication; when the indicators turned negative 
he decided to leave.[11] Lewis L. Gould maintains that Johnson had neglected 
the party, was hurting it by his Vietnam policies, and underestimated McCarthy's 
strength until the very last minute, when it was too late for Johnson to 
recover.[12] Randall Bennett Woods said Johnson realized he needed to leave 
in order for the nation to heal.[13] Robert Dallek writes that Johnson 
had no further domestic goals, and realized that his personality had eroded 
his popularity. His health was not good, and he was preoccupied with the 
Kennedy campaign; his wife was pressing for his retirement and his base 
of support continued to shrink. Leaving the race would allow him to pose 
as a peacemaker.[14] Anthony J. Bennett, however, claims Johnson "had been 
forced out of a reelection race in 1968 by outrage over his policy in Southeast 
Asia".[15] It has also been reported that Johnson decided to wind down 
his re-election bid after popular and influential CBS News anchor Walter 
Cronkite turned against the president's policy in Vietnam and recommended 
peace negotiations during a CBS News editorial which aired on February 
27.[16][17] After later watching Cronkite's editorial, Johnson allegedly 
exclaimed "if I've lost Cronkite, I've lost Middle America."[16] Issues 
surrounding reports of this allegation have raised questions about its 
accuracy,[18] such as the fact that Johnson was attending Texas Governor 
John Connally's birthday gala in Austin, Texas, when Cronkite's editorial 
aired and thus was unable to see the original broadcast.[18] However, Cronkite 
and CBS News correspondent Bob Schieffer defended reports that the remark 
had been made and claimed that members of Johnson's inner circle who had 
watched the editorial with the president, including presidential aide George 
Christian and journalist Bill Moyers, were able to confirm its accuracy 
to them at a later time.[19][20] Schieffer, who was serving as a reporter 
for the Star-Telegram's WBAP television station in Fort Worth, Texas, when 
Cronkite's editorial aired, acknowledged reports that the president saw 
the editorial's original broadcast were inaccurate,[20] but claimed the 
president was able to watch a taping of it the morning after it aired and 
then made the remark.[20] With Johnson's withdrawal, the Democratic Party 
quickly split into four factions, each of which distrusted the other three.[citation 
needed] Since the Vietnam War had become the major issue that was dividing 
the Democratic Party, and Johnson had come to symbolize the war for many 
liberal Democrats, Johnson believed that he could not win the nomination 
without a major struggle, and that he would probably lose the election 
in November to the Republicans. However, by withdrawing from the race he 
could avoid the stigma of defeat, and he could keep control of the party 
machinery by giving the nomination to Humphrey, who had been a loyal vice-president.[21] 
Milne (2011) argues that, in terms of foreign-policy in the Vietnam War, 
Johnson at the end wanted Nixon to be president rather than Humphrey, since 
Johnson agreed with Nixon, rather than Humphrey, on the need to defend 
South Vietnam from communism.[22] However, Johnson's telephone calls show 
that Johnson believed the Nixon camp was deliberately sabotaging the Paris 
peace talks. He told Humphrey, who refused to use allegations based on 
illegal wiretaps of a presidential candidate. Nixon himself called Johnson 
and denied the allegations. Dallek concludes that Nixon's advice to Saigon 
made no difference, and that Humphrey was so closely identified with Johnson's 
unpopular policies that no last-minute deal with Hanoi could have affected 
the election.[23] After Johnson's withdrawal, Vice President Hubert Humphrey 
announced his candidacy. Kennedy was successful in four state primaries 
(Indiana, Nebraska, South Dakota, and California) and McCarthy won six 
(Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, Oregon, New Jersey, and Illinois). 
However, in primaries where they campaigned directly against one another, 
Kennedy won three primaries (Indiana, Nebraska, and California) and McCarthy 
won one (Oregon).[24] Humphrey did not compete in the primaries, leaving 
that job to favorite sons who were his surrogates, notably Senator George 
A. Smathers from Florida, Senator Stephen M. Young from Ohio, and Governor 
Roger D. Branigin of Indiana. Instead, Humphrey concentrated on winning 
the delegates in non-primary states, where party leaders such as Chicago 
Mayor Richard J. Daley controlled the delegate votes in their states. Kennedy 
defeated Branigin and McCarthy in the Indiana primary, and then defeated 
McCarthy in the Nebraska primary. However, McCarthy upset Kennedy in the 
Oregon primary. After Kennedy's defeat in Oregon, the California primary 
was seen as crucial to both Kennedy and McCarthy. McCarthy stumped the 
state's many colleges and universities, where he was treated as a hero 
for being the first presidential candidate to oppose the war. Kennedy campaigned 
in the ghettos and barrios of the state's larger cities, where he was mobbed 
by enthusiastic supporters. Kennedy and McCarthy engaged in a television 
debate a few days before the primary; it was generally considered a draw. 
On June 4, Kennedy narrowly defeated McCarthy in California, 46%–42%. However, 
McCarthy refused to withdraw from the race and made it clear that he would 
contest Kennedy in the upcoming New York primary, where McCarthy had much 
support from anti-war activists in New York City. The New York primary 
quickly became a moot point, however, for Kennedy was shot shortly after 
midnight on June 5; he died twenty-six hours later. Kennedy had just given 
his victory speech in a crowded ballroom of the Ambassador Hotel in Los 
Angeles; he and his aides then entered a narrow kitchen pantry on their 
way to a banquet room to meet with reporters. In the pantry Kennedy and 
five others were shot by Sirhan Sirhan, a 24-year-old Rosicrucian Palestinian 
of Christian background and Jordanian citizenship, who hated Kennedy because 
of his support for Israel. Sirhan admitted his guilt, was convicted of 
murder, and is still in prison.[25] In recent years some have cast a doubt 
on this, including Sirhan himself, who said he was "brainwashed" into killing 
Kennedy and was a patsy.[26][27][28][29] Political historians have debated 
to this day whether Kennedy could have won the Democratic nomination had 
he lived. Some historians, such as Theodore H. White and Arthur M. Schlesinger, 
Jr., have argued that Kennedy's broad appeal and famed charisma would have 
convinced the party bosses at the Democratic Convention to give him the 
nomination. Jack Newfield, author of RFK: A Memoir, stated in a 1998 interview 
that on the night he was assassinated, "[Kennedy] had a phone conversation 
with Mayor Daley of Chicago, and Mayor Daley all but promised to throw 
the Illinois delegates to Bobby at the convention in August 1968. I think 
he said to me, and Pete Hamill, 'Daley is the ball game, and I think we 
have Daley.'"[30] However, other writers such as Tom Wicker, who covered 
the Kennedy campaign for The New York Times, believe that Humphrey's large 
lead in delegate votes from non-primary states, combined with Senator McCarthy's 
refusal to quit the race, would have prevented Kennedy from ever winning 
a majority at the Democratic Convention, and that Humphrey would have been 
the Democratic nominee even if Kennedy had lived. The journalist Richard 
Reeves and historian Michael Beschloss have both written that Humphrey 
was the likely nominee, and future Democratic National Committee chairman 
Larry O'Brien wrote in his memoirs that Kennedy's chances of winning the 
nomination had been slim, even after his win in California. At the moment 
of RFK's death, the delegate totals were: Total popular vote:[31] Robert 
Kennedy's death altered the dynamics of the race. Although Humphrey appeared 
the prohibitive favorite for the nomination, thanks to his support from 
the traditional power blocs of the party, he was an unpopular choice with 
many of the anti-war elements within the party, who identified him with 
Johnson's controversial position on the Vietnam War. However, Kennedy's 
delegates failed to unite behind a single candidate who could have prevented 
Humphrey from getting the nomination. Some of Kennedy's support went to 
McCarthy, but many of Kennedy's delegates, remembering their bitter primary 
battles with McCarthy, refused to vote for him. Instead, these delegates 
rallied around the late-starting candidacy of Senator George McGovern of 
South Dakota, a Kennedy supporter in the spring primaries who had presidential 
ambitions himself. This division of the anti-war votes at the Democratic 
Convention made it easier for Humphrey to gather the delegates he needed 
to win the nomination. When the 1968 Democratic National Convention opened 
in Chicago, thousands of young activists from around the nation gathered 
in the city to protest the Vietnam War. On the evening of August 28, in 
a clash which was covered on live television, Americans were shocked to 
see Chicago police brutally beating anti-war protesters in the streets 
of Chicago in front of the Conrad Hilton Hotel. While the protesters chanted 
"the whole world is watching", the police used clubs and tear gas to beat 
back or arrest the protesters, leaving many of them bloody and dazed. The 
tear gas wafted into numerous hotel suites; in one of them Vice President 
Humphrey was watching the proceedings on television. The police said that 
their actions were justified because numerous police officers were being 
injured by bottles, rocks, and broken glass that were being thrown at them 
by the protestors. The protestors had also yelled verbal insults at the 
police, calling them "pigs" and other epithets. The anti-war and police 
riot divided the Democratic Party's base: some supported the protestors 
and felt that the police were being heavy-handed, but others disapproved 
of the violence and supported the police. Meanwhile, the convention itself 
was marred by the strong-arm tactics of Chicago's mayor Richard J. Daley 
(who was seen on television angrily cursing Senator Abraham Ribicoff of 
Connecticut, who made a speech at the convention denouncing the excesses 
of the Chicago police). In the end, the nomination itself was anti-climactic, 
with Vice-President Humphrey handily beating McCarthy and McGovern on the 
first ballot. After the delegates nominated Humphrey, the convention then 
turned to selecting a vice-president. The main candidates for this position 
were Senators Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, Edmund Muskie of Maine, 
and Fred R. Harris of Oklahoma; Governors Richard Hughes of New Jersey 
and Terry Sanford of North Carolina; Mayor Joseph Alioto of San Francisco, 
California; former Deputy Secretary of Defense Cyrus Vance of West Virginia; 
and Ambassador Sargent Shriver of Maryland. Another idea floated was to 
tap Republican Governor Nelson Rockefeller of New York, one of the most 
liberal Republicans. Ted Kennedy was Humphrey's first choice, but the senator 
turned him down. After narrowing it down to Senator Muskie and Senator 
Harris, Vice-President Humphrey chose Muskie, a moderate and environmentalist 
from Maine, for the nomination. The convention complied with the request 
and nominated Senator Muskie as Humphrey's running mate. The publicity 
from the anti-war riots crippled Humphrey's campaign from the start, and 
it never fully recovered.[32] Before 1968 the city of Chicago had been 
a frequent host for the political conventions of both parties; since 1968 
only one national convention has been held there (the Democratic convention 
of 1996, which nominated Bill Clinton for a second term). Many believe 
that this is due in part to the violence and chaos of the 1968 convention. 
Source: Keating Holland, "All the Votes... Really," CNN[33] Hubert Humphrey 
Robert F. Kennedy Eugene McCarthy George McGovern (during convention) Former 
Vice President Richard Nixon, from New York Governor Ronald Reagan of California 
Governor Nelson Rockefeller of New York Governor George Romney of Michigan 
(Withdrew Feb 28, 1968) Senator Charles H. Percy from Illinois (Declined 
to Actively Run) Former Governor Harold Stassen of Minnesota Senator Jacob 
K. Javits from New York (Declined to Run) (Endorsed Nelson Rockefeller) 
The front-runner for the Republican nomination was former Vice President 
Richard Nixon, who formally began campaigning in January 1968.[40] Nixon 
had worked tirelessly behind the scenes and was instrumental in Republican 
gains in Congress and governorships in the 1966 midterm elections. Thus, 
the party machinery and many of the new congressmen and governors supported 
him. Still, there was wariness in the Republican ranks over Nixon, who 
had lost the 1960 election and then lost the 1962 California gubernatorial 
election. Some hoped a more "electable" candidate would emerge. To a great 
extent the story of the 1968 Republican primary campaign and nomination 
is the story of one Nixon opponent after another entering the race and 
then dropping out. Nixon was always clearly the front runner throughout 
the contest because of his superior organization, and he easily defeated 
the rest of the field. Nixon's first challenger was Michigan Governor George 
W. Romney. A Gallup poll in mid-1967 showed Nixon with 39%, followed by 
Romney with 25%. However, Romney, after a fact finding trip to Vietnam, 
told a news reporter that he had been "brainwashed" by the military and 
the diplomatic corps into supporting the Vietnam War; the remark led to 
weeks of ridicule in the national news media. Since he had turned against 
American involvement in Vietnam, Romney planned to run as the anti-war 
Republican version of Eugene McCarthy.[41] However, following his "brainwashing" 
comment, Romney's support faded steadily, and with polls showing him far 
behind Nixon he withdrew from the race on February 28, 1968.[42] Senator 
Charles Percy was considered another potential threat to Nixon even before 
Romney's withdrawal, and had planned on potentially waging an active campaign 
after securing a role as Illinois's favorite son. Later however Percy declined 
to have his name presented on the ballot for the Illinois presidential 
primary, and while he never disclaimed his interest in the presidential 
nomination, he no longer actively sought it either.[43] Nixon won a resounding 
victory in the important New Hampshire primary on March 12, with 78% of 
the vote. Anti-war Republicans wrote in the name of New York Governor Nelson 
Rockefeller, the leader of the Republican Party's liberal wing, who received 
11% of the vote and became Nixon's new challenger. Rockefeller had originally 
not intended to run, having discounted a campaign for the nomination in 
1965 and planned on making Senator Jacob Javits the favorite son, either 
in preparation of a presidential campaign or to secure him the second spot 
on the ticket; as Rockefeller warmed to the idea of entering the race again 
however, Javits moved his attentions back towards seeking a third term 
in the Senate.[44] Nixon led Rockefeller in the polls throughout the primary 
campaign, and though Rockefeller defeated Nixon and Governor John Volpe 
in the Massachusetts primary on April 30, he otherwise fared poorly in 
state primaries and conventions, having declared too late to place his 
name on state ballots. By early spring, California Governor Ronald Reagan, 
the leader of the Republican Party's conservative wing, had become Nixon's 
chief rival. In the Nebraska primary on May 14, Nixon won with 70% of the 
vote to 21% for Reagan and 5% for Rockefeller. While this was a wide margin 
for Nixon, Reagan remained Nixon's leading challenger. Nixon won the next 
primary of importance, Oregon, on May 15 with 65% of the vote, and won 
all the following primaries except for California (June 4), where only 
Reagan appeared on the ballot. Reagan's victory in California gave him 
a plurality of the nationwide primary vote, but his poor showing in most 
other state primaries left him far behind Nixon in the actual delegate 
count. Total popular vote: As the 1968 Republican National Convention opened 
in Miami Beach, Florida, the Associated Press estimated that Nixon had 
656 delegate votes - only 11 short of the number he needed to win the nomination. 
His only remaining obstacles were Reagan and Rockefeller, who were planning 
to unite their forces in a "stop-Nixon" movement. Because Goldwater had 
done well in the Deep South, delegates to the 1968 Republican National 
Convention would be more Southern and conservative than past conventions. 
There was a real possibility that the conservative Reagan would be nominated 
if there was no victor on the first ballot. Nixon narrowly secured the 
nomination on the first ballot, with the aid of South Carolina Senator 
Strom Thurmond, who had switched parties in 1964.[45][page needed][46] 
He selected dark horse Maryland Governor Spiro Agnew as his running mate, 
a choice which Nixon believed would unite the party, appealing to both 
Northern moderates and Southerners disaffected with the Democrats.[47][48] 
It was also reported that Nixon's first choice for running mate was his 
longtime friend and ally, Robert Finch, who was the Lieutenant Governor 
of California at the time, but Finch declined the offer. Finch would later 
serve as the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare in Nixon's Administration. 
With Vietnam also a key issue, Nixon strongly considered tapping his 1960 
running mate, Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr, who was a former U.S. Senator, Ambassador 
to the UN, and Ambassador twice to South Vietnam. Candidates for the Vice-Presidential 
nomination: As of 2016, this was the last time two siblings (Nelson and 
Winthrop Rockefeller) ran against each other in a Presidential primary. 
Former Governor George Wallace of Alabama The American Independent Party, 
which was established in 1967 by Bill and Eileen Shearer, nominated former 
Alabama Governor George Wallace – whose pro-segregation policies had been 
rejected by the mainstream of the Democratic Party – as the party's candidate 
for president. The impact of the Wallace campaign was substantial, winning 
the electoral votes of several states in the Deep South. Wallace was the 
most popular 1968 presidential candidate among young men.[49] Wallace also 
proved to be popular among blue-collar workers in the North and Midwest, 
and he took many votes which might have gone to Humphrey. Although Wallace 
did not expect to win the election, his strategy was to prevent either 
major party candidate from winning a preliminary majority in the Electoral 
College, which would then give him bargaining power to determine the winner. 
Wallace's running mate was retired U.S. Air Force General Curtis LeMay. 
Prior to deciding on LeMay, Wallace gave serious consideration to former 
U.S. Senator, Governor, and Baseball Commissioner A.B. Happy Chandler of 
Kentucky as his running mate.[50] Chandler and Wallace met a number of 
times, however, Chandler said that he and Wallace were unable to come to 
an agreement regarding their positions on racial matters. Paradoxically, 
Chandler supported the segregationist Dixiecrats in the 1948 presidential 
elections. But, after being reelected Governor of Kentucky in 1955, he 
used National Guard troops to enforce school integration.[51] LeMay embarrassed 
Wallace's campaign in the fall by suggesting that nuclear weapons could 
be used in Vietnam. Also on the ballot in two or more states were black 
activist Eldridge Cleaver (who was ineligible to take office, as he would 
have only been 33 years of age on January 20, 1969) for the Peace and Freedom 
Party, Henning Blomen for the Socialist Labor Party, Fred Halstead for 
the Socialist Workers Party, E. Harold Munn for the Prohibition Party, 
and Charlene Mitchell – the first African-American woman to run for president 
– for the Communist Party. Comedians Dick Gregory and Pat Paulsen were 
notable write-in candidates. A facetious presidential candidate for 1968 
was a pig named Pigasus, as a political statement by the Yippies, to illustrate 
their premise that "one pig's as good as any other."[52][page needed] Nixon 
developed a "Southern strategy" that was designed to appeal to conservative 
white southerners, who traditionally voted Democratic, but were opposed 
to Johnson and Humphrey's support for the civil rights movement, as well 
as the rioting that had broken out in the ghettos of most large cities. 
Wallace, however, won over many of the voters Nixon targeted, effectively 
splitting the conservative vote. Indeed, Wallace deliberately targeted 
many states he had little chance of carrying himself in the hope that by 
splitting the conservative vote with Nixon he would give those states to 
Humphrey and, by extension, boost his own chances of denying both opponents 
an Electoral College majority.[53] Since he was well behind Nixon in the 
polls as the campaign began, Humphrey opted for a slashing, fighting campaign 
style. He repeatedly - and unsuccessfully - challenged Nixon to a televised 
debate, and he often compared his campaign to the successful underdog effort 
of President Harry Truman, another Democrat who had trailed in the polls, 
in the 1948 presidential election. Humphrey predicted that he, like Truman, 
would surprise the experts and win an upset victory.[citation needed] Nixon 
campaigned on a theme to restore "law and order,"[54] which appealed to 
many voters angry with the hundreds of violent riots that had taken place 
across the country in the previous few years. Following the murder of Dr. 
King in April 1968, there was severe rioting in Detroit and Washington, 
D.C., and President Johnson had to call out the U.S. Army to protect lives 
and property as smoke from burning buildings a few blocks away drifted 
across the White House lawn. However, Vice-President Humphrey criticized 
the "law and order" issue, claiming that it was a subtle appeal to white 
racial prejudice.[55] Nixon also opposed forced busing to desegregate schools.[56] 
Proclaiming himself a supporter of civil rights, he recommended education 
as the solution rather than militancy. During the campaign, Nixon proposed 
government tax incentives to African Americans for small businesses and 
home improvements in their existing neighborhoods.[57] During the campaign, 
Nixon also used as a theme his opposition to the decisions of Chief Justice 
Earl Warren. Many conservatives were critical of Chief Justice Warren for 
using the Supreme Court to promote liberal policies in the fields of civil 
rights, civil liberties, and the separation of church and state. Nixon 
promised that if he were elected president, he would appoint justices who 
would take a less-active role in creating social policy.[58] In another 
campaign promise, he pledged to end the draft.[59] During the 1960s, Nixon 
had been impressed by a paper he had read by Professor Martin Anderson 
of Columbia University. Anderson had argued in the paper for an end to 
the draft and the creation of an all-volunteer army.[60] Nixon also saw 
ending the draft as an effective way to undermine the anti-Vietnam war 
movement, since he believed affluent college-age youths would stop protesting 
the war once their own possibility of having to fight in it was gone.[61] 
Humphrey, meanwhile, promised to continue and expand the Great Society 
welfare programs started by President Johnson, and to continue the Johnson 
Administration's "War on Poverty." He also promised to continue the efforts 
of Presidents Kennedy and Johnson, and the Supreme Court, in promoting 
the expansion of civil rights and civil liberties for minority groups. 
However, Humphrey also felt constrained for most of his campaign in voicing 
any opposition to the Vietnam War policies of President Johnson, due to 
his fear that Johnson would reject any peace proposals he made and undermine 
his campaign. As a result, early in his campaign Humphrey often found himself 
the target of anti-war protestors, some of whom heckled and disrupted his 
campaign rallies. After the Democratic Convention in late August, Humphrey 
trailed Nixon by double digits in most polls, and his chances seemed hopeless. 
According to Time magazine, "The old Democratic coalition was disintegrating, 
with untold numbers of blue-collar workers responding to Wallace's blandishments, 
Negroes threatening to sit out the election, liberals disaffected over 
the Vietnam War, the South lost. The war chest was almost empty, and the 
party's machinery, neglected by Lyndon Johnson, creaked in disrepair."[62] 
Calling for "the politics of joy," and using the still-powerful labor unions 
as his base, Humphrey fought back. In order to distance himself from Johnson 
and to take advantage of the Democratic plurality in voter registration, 
Humphrey stopped being identified in ads as "Vice-President Hubert Humphrey," 
instead being labelled "Democratic candidate Hubert Humphrey." Humphrey 
attacked Wallace as a racist bigot who appealed to the darker impulses 
of Americans. Wallace had been rising in the polls, and peaked at 21% in 
September, but his momentum stopped after he selected Curtis LeMay as his 
running mate. Curtis LeMay's suggestion of tactical nuclear weapons being 
used in Vietnam conjured up memories of the 1964 Goldwater campaign.[45] 
Labor unions also undertook a major effort to win back union members who 
were supporting Wallace, with substantial success. Polls that showed Wallace 
winning almost one-half of union members in the summer of 1968 showed a 
sharp decline in his union support as the campaign progressed. As election 
day approached and Wallace's support in the North and Midwest began to 
wane, Humphrey finally began to climb in the polls. In October, Humphrey—who 
was rising sharply in the polls due to the collapse of the Wallace vote—began 
to distance himself publicly from the Johnson administration on the Vietnam 
War, calling for a bombing halt. The key turning point for Humphrey's campaign 
came when President Johnson officially announced a bombing halt, and even 
a possible peace deal, the weekend before the election. The "Halloween 
Peace" gave Humphrey's campaign a badly needed boost. In addition, Senator 
Eugene McCarthy finally endorsed Humphrey in late October after previously 
refusing to do so, and by election day the polls were reporting a dead 
heat.[63] However, the Nixon campaign had anticipated a possible "October 
surprise" to boost Humphrey and thwarted any last-minute chances of a "Halloween 
Peace." Bryce Harlow, former Eisenhower White House staff member, claimed 
to have "a double agent working in the White House....I kept Nixon informed." 
Harlow and Nixon's future National Security Advisor and Secretary of State 
Henry Kissinger, who was friendly with both campaigns and guaranteed a 
job in either a Humphrey or Nixon administration, separately predicted 
Johnson's "bombing halt": "The word is out that we are making an effort 
to throw the election to Humphrey. Nixon has been told of it," Democratic 
senator George Smathers informed Johnson. According to Robert Dallek in 
2007, Kissinger's advice "rested not on special knowledge of decision making 
at the White House but on an astute analyst's insight into what was happening."[64] 
Nixon asked Anna Chennault to be his "channel to Mr. Thieu" in order to 
advise him to refuse participation in the talks. Thieu was promised a better 
deal under a Nixon administration.[65] Chennault agreed and periodically 
reported to John Mitchell that Thieu had no intention of attending a peace 
conference. On November 2, Chennault informed the South Vietnamese ambassador: 
"I have just heard from my boss in Albuquerque who says his boss [Nixon] 
is going to win. And you tell your boss [Thieu] to hold on a while longer." 
In 1997, Chennault admitted that "I was constantly in touch with Nixon 
and Mitchell."[66] The effort also involved Texas Senator John Tower and 
Kissinger, who traveled to Paris on behalf of the Nixon campaign. William 
Bundy stated that Kissinger obtained "no useful inside information" from 
his trip to Paris, and "almost any experienced Hanoi watcher might have 
come to the same conclusion". While Kissinger may have "hinted that his 
advice was based on contacts with the Paris delegation," this sort of "self-promotion....is 
at worst a minor and not uncommon practice, quite different from getting 
and reporting real secrets."[67] In 2007, Conrad Black asserted that there 
is "no evidence" connecting Kissinger in particular, who was "playing a 
fairly innocuous double game of self-promotion," with attempts to undermine 
the peace talks. Black further commented that "the Democrats were outraged 
at Nixon, but what Johnson was doing was equally questionable," and there 
is "no evidence" that Thieu "needed much prompting to discern which side 
he favored in the U.S. election."[68] Johnson learned of the Nixon-Chennault 
effort because the NSA was interfering in communications in Vietnam.[69] 
In 2009, new tapes were declassified revealing that Johnson was enraged 
and said that Nixon had "blood on his hands" and that Senate Minority Leader 
Everett Dirksen agreed with Johnson that such action was "treason."[70][71] 
Defense Secretary Clark Clifford considered the moves an illegal violation 
of the Logan Act.[72] In response, Johnson ordered NSA surveillance of 
Chennault and wire-tapped the South Vietnamese embassy and members of the 
Nixon campaign.[73] He did not leak the information to the public because 
he did not want to "shock America" with the revelation,[74] nor reveal 
that the NSA was interfering in communications in Vietnam.[75] Johnson 
did make information available to Humphrey, but at this point Humphrey 
thought he was going to win the election, so he did not reveal the information 
to the public. Humphrey later regretted this as a mistake.[76] The South 
Vietnamese government withdrew from peace negotiations, and Nixon publicly 
offered to go to Saigon to help the negotiations.[77] Dallek wrote that 
Nixon's efforts "probably made no difference," because Thieu was unwilling 
to attend the talks and there was little chance of an agreement being reached 
before the election. However, his use of information provided by Harlow 
and Kissinger was morally questionable, and Humphrey's decision not to 
make Nixon's actions public was "an uncommon act of political decency."[78] 
Either way, a promising "peace bump" ended up in "shambles" for the Democratic 
Party.[75] The election on November 5, 1968, proved to be extremely close, 
and it was not until the following morning that the television news networks 
were able to declare Nixon the winner. The key states proved to be California, 
Ohio, and Illinois, all of which Nixon won by three percentage points or 
less. Had Humphrey carried all three of these states, he would have won 
the election. Had he carried two of them or just California alone, George 
Wallace would have succeeded in his aim of preventing an electoral college 
majority for any candidate, and the decision would have been given to the 
House of Representatives, at the time controlled by the Democratic Party. 
Nixon won the popular vote with a plurality of 512,000 votes, or a victory 
margin of about one percentage point. In the electoral college Nixon's 
victory was larger, as he carried 32 states with 301 electoral votes, compared 
to Humphrey's 13 states and 191 electoral votes and Wallace's five states 
and 46 electoral votes. Out of all the states that Nixon had previously 
carried in 1960, Maine and Washington were the only two states that did 
not vote for him again; Nixon carried them during his re-election campaign 
in 1972. This was the last time until 1988 that the state of Washington 
voted Democratic and until 1992 that Connecticut, Maine, and Michigan voted 
Democratic in the general election. Nixon was also the last Republican 
candidate to win a presidential election without carrying Alabama, Arkansas, 
Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Of the 3,130 counties/districts/independent 
cities making returns, Nixon won in 1,859 (59.39%) while Humphrey carried 
693 (22.14%). Wallace was victorious in 578 counties (18.47%), all of which 
were located in the South. Nixon said that Humphrey left a gracious message 
congratulating him, noting, "I know exactly how he felt. I know how it 
feels to lose a close one."[79] Nixon's victory is often considered a realigning 
election in American politics. From 1932 to 1964, the Democratic Party 
was undoubtedly the majority party. During that time period, Democrats 
won seven out of nine presidential elections, and their agenda influenced 
policies undertaken by the Republican Eisenhower administration. The 1968 
election reversed the situation completely. From 1968 until 2004, Republicans 
won seven out of 10 presidential elections, and its policies clearly affected 
those enacted by the Democratic Clinton administration via the Third Way. 
The election was a seismic event in the long-term realignment in Democratic 
Party support, especially in the South.[80] Nationwide, the bitter splits 
over civil rights, the new left, the Vietnam War, and other "culture wars" 
were slow to heal. Democrats could no longer count on white Southern support 
for the presidency, as Republicans made major gains in suburban areas and 
areas filled with Northern migrants. The rural Democratic "courthouse cliques" 
in the South lost power. While Democrats controlled local and state politics 
in the South, Republicans usually won the presidential vote. In 1968, Humphrey 
won less than 10% of the white Southern vote, with two-thirds of his vote 
in the region coming from blacks, who now were voting in full strength.[81] 
From 1968 until 2004, only two Democrats were elected President, both native 
Southerners - Jimmy Carter of Georgia and Bill Clinton of Arkansas. Not 
until 2008 did a Northern Democrat, Barack Obama of Illinois, win a presidential 
election. Another important result of this election was that it led to 
several reforms in how the Democratic Party chose its presidential nominees. 
In 1969, the McGovern–Fraser Commission adopted a set of rules for the 
states to follow in selecting convention delegates. These rules reduced 
the influence of party leaders on the nominating process and provided greater 
representation for minorities, women, and youth. The reforms led most states 
to adopt laws requiring primary elections, instead of party leaders, to 
choose delegates. After 1968, the only way to win the party's presidential 
nomination was through the primary process; Humphrey turned out to be the 
last nominee of either major party to win his party's nomination without 
having directly competed in the primaries. This was also the last election 
in which any third party candidate won an entire state's electoral votes, 
with Wallace carrying five states. Despite the narrow (0.7%) difference 
in the popular vote, Humphrey only took 35.5% of the electoral vote. This 
disparity prompted the introduction of the Bayh–Celler Constitutional amendment 
in Congress, which would have replaced the Electoral College with a direct 
election of the presidency. The effort was not successful and the Electoral 
College is still in force. Source (Popular Vote): Leip, David. "1968 Presidential 
Election Results". Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections. Retrieved 
August 7, 2005.  Source (Electoral Vote): "Electoral College Box Scores 
1789–1996". National Archives and Records Administration. Retrieved August 
7, 2005.  Results by county, shaded according to winning candidate's percentage 
of the vote Presidential election results by county. Republican presidential 
election results by county. Democratic presidential election results by 
county. American Independent presidential election results by county. "Other" 
presidential election results by county. Cartogram of presidential election 
results by county. Cartogram of Republican presidential election results 
by county. Cartogram of Democratic presidential election results by county. 
Cartogram of American Independent presidential election results by county. 
Cartogram of "Other" presidential election results by county. [83] States 
where margin of victory was less than 5 percentage points (223 electoral 
votes): States where margin of victory was more than 5 percentage points, 
but less than 10 percentage points (155 electoral votes): Notes: In Alabama, 
Wallace was the official Democratic Party nominee, while Humphrey ran on 
the ticket of short-lived National Democratic Party of Alabama, loyal to 
him as an official Democratic Party nominee[84][85] In North Carolina one 
Nixon Elector cast his ballot for George Wallace (President) and Curtis 
LeMay (Vice President).[86] Converse et al. (1969) assesses the significance 
of the 1968 presidential election.[87] Many people were dissatisfied with 
Johnson but not with the Democratic Party. Their dissatisfaction was connected 
to the Vietnam War, civil rights, and law and order. Humphrey, the choice 
of an older generation, suffered from identification with the Johnson administration. 
Wallace attracted many Richard Nixon-bound Democrats and thus was a threat 
to Nixon. McCarthy's popularity in the New Hampshire primary was a nondifferentiated 
anti-Johnson vote from which many voters went to Wallace. These were not, 
however, the hard-core McCarthyite followers. Wallace's success was the 
result of the voter's identification with his stand on the primary issues 
- continuing segregation, getting out of Vietnam, a focus on liberal economic 
policies and law and order. Wallace's supporters were rural and small town 
residents in the South and skilled labor in the North. They were disgusted 
with public policy and were often alienated from politics.[88] Source: 
Congressional Quarterly Weekly Report. "Group Analysis of the 1968 Presidential 
Vote" XXVI, No. 48 (November 1968), p. 3218. Source: Congressional Quarterly 
Weekly Report. "Group Analysis of the 1968 Presidential Vote", XXVI, No. 
