www.usna.edu The United States Naval Academy (also known as USNA, Annapolis, 
or simply Navy) is a four-year coeducational federal service academy in 
Annapolis, Maryland, United States. Established on October 10, 1845, under 
Secretary of the Navy George Bancroft, it is the second oldest of the United 
States' five service academies, and educates officers for commissioning 
primarily into the United States Navy and United States Marine Corps. The 
338-acre (137 ha) campus is located on the former grounds of Fort Severn 
at the confluence of the Severn River and Chesapeake Bay in Anne Arundel 
County, 33 miles (53 km) east of Washington, D.C. and 26 miles (42 km) 
southeast of Baltimore. The entire campus is a National Historic Landmark 
and home to many historic sites, buildings, and monuments. It replaced 
Philadelphia Naval Asylum, in Philadelphia, that served as the first United 
States Naval Academy from 1838 to 1845 when the Naval Academy formed in 
Annapolis.[4] Candidates for admission generally must both apply directly 
to the academy and receive a nomination, usually from a Member of Congress. 
Students are officers-in-training and are referred to as midshipmen. Tuition 
for midshipmen is fully funded by the Navy in exchange for an active duty 
service obligation upon graduation. Approximately 1,200 "plebes" (an abbreviation 
of the Ancient Roman word plebeian) enter the Academy each summer for the 
rigorous Plebe Summer, but only about 1,000 midshipmen graduate. Graduates 
are usually commissioned as ensigns in the Navy or second lieutenants in 
the Marine Corps, but a small number can also be cross-commissioned as 
officers in other U.S. services, and the services of allied nations. The 
United States Naval Academy has some of the highest paid graduates in the 
country according to starting salary.[5] The academic program grants a 
bachelor of science degree with a curriculum that grades midshipmen's performance 
upon a broad academic program, military leadership performance, and mandatory 
participation in competitive athletics. Midshipmen are required to adhere 
to the academy's Honor Concept. The United States Naval Academy's campus 
is located in Annapolis, Maryland, at the confluence of the Severn River 
and the Chesapeake Bay. In its 2016 edition, U.S. News & World Report ranked 
the U.S. Naval Academy as the No. 1 public liberal arts college and tied 
for the 9th best overall liberal arts college in the U.S.[6] In the category 
of High School Counselor Rankings of National Liberal Arts Colleges, the 
Naval Academy is also tied for No. 1 with the U.S. Military Academy and 
the U.S. Air Force Academy, and is tied for the No. 5 spot for Best Undergraduate 
Engineering program at schools where doctorates not offered.[6] In 2016, 
Forbes ranked the U.S. Naval Academy as No. 24 overall in its report "America's 
Top Colleges".[7] Prospective candidates must either be nominated by certain 
public officials -- or be the child of a Medal of Honor recipient, which 
entitles a qualified candidate to automatic admission without nomination.[8] 
Nominations may be made by members of and delegates to Congress, the President 
or Vice-President, the Secretary of the Navy or certain other sources.[9] 
Candidates must also pass a physical fitness test and a thorough medical 
exam as part of the application process. In the 21st century, there have 
been about 1,200 students in each new class of plebes (freshmen).[10] The 
U.S. government pays for tuition, room, and board. Midshipmen receive monthly 
pay of $1,017.00, as of 2015.[11] From this amount, pay is automatically 
deducted for the cost of uniforms, books, supplies, services, and other 
miscellaneous expenses. Midshipmen only receive a portion of their total 
pay in cash while the rest is released during "firstie" (senior) year. 
Midshipmen fourth-class (plebes) to midshipmen second-class (juniors) receive 
monthly stipends of $100, $200, $300, respectively. Midshipmen first-class 
receive the difference between pay and outstanding expenses. Students at 
the naval academy are addressed as Midshipman, an official military rank 
and paygrade. As midshipmen are actually in the United States Navy, starting 
from the moment that they raise their hands and affirm the oath of office 
at the swearing-in ceremony, they are subject to the Uniform Code of Military 
Justice, of which USNA regulations are a part, as well as to all executive 
policies and orders formulated by the Department of the Navy. The same 
term comprises both males and females. Upon graduation, most naval academy 
midshipmen are commissioned as ensigns in the Navy or second lieutenants 
in the Marine Corps and serve a minimum of five years after their commissioning. 
If they are selected to serve as a pilot (aircraft), they will serve 8–11 
years minimum from their date of winging, and if they are selected to serve 
as a naval flight officer they will serve 6–8 years. Foreign midshipmen 
are commissioned into the armed forces of their native countries. Since 
1959, midshipmen have also been eligible to "cross-commission," or request 
a commission in the Air Force or Army, provided they meet that service's 
eligibility standards. Starting in 2004, midshipmen also became eligible 
to seek Coast Guard commissions. Every year, a small number of graduates 
do this—typically three or four—usually in a one-for-one "trade" with a 
similarly inclined cadet or midshipman at one of the other service academies. 
At the beginning of their second-class year, midshipmen make their commitment, 
also known as signing their "2-for-7." This represents a commitment to 
finish two years at the academy and then an additional five years on active 
duty. Upon graduation, midshipmen are obligated to serve at minimum 5 years 
of service after graduation. Those selected for post-graduate education 
will continue concurrently with their commissioning obligation for officers 
in the U.S. Navy and consecutively for officers in the U.S. Marine Corps. 
Midshipmen who entered the academy from civilian life and who resign or 
are separated from the academy in their first two years incur no military 
service obligation. Those who are separated—voluntarily or involuntarily 
– after that time are required to serve on active duty in an enlisted capacity, 
usually for two to four years. Alternatively, separated former midshipmen 
can reimburse the government for their educational expenses, though the 
sum is often in excess of $150,000. The decision whether to serve enlisted 
time or reimburse the government is at the discretion of the Secretary 
of the Navy. Midshipmen who entered the academy from the enlisted ranks 
return to their enlisted status to serve the remainder of their enlistment. 
The Navy operates the Naval Postgraduate School and the Naval War College 
separately. The Naval Academy Preparatory School (NAPS), in Newport, Rhode 
Island, is the official prep school for the Naval Academy. The Naval Academy 
Foundation provides post-graduate high school education for a year of preparatory 
school before entering the academy for a very limited number of applicants. 
There are several preparatory schools and junior colleges throughout the 
United States that host this program.[12][clarification needed] The academy's 
Latin motto is Ex Scientia Tridens, Which means "Through Knowledge, Sea 
Power." It appears on a design devised by the lawyer, writer, editor, encyclopedist 
and naval academy graduate (1867), Park Benjamin, Jr. It was adopted by 
the Navy Department in 1898 due to the efforts of another graduate (also 
1867) and collaborator, Jacob W. Miller. Benjamin states:[13] "The seal 
or coat-of-arms of the Naval Academy has for its crest a hand grasping 
a trident, below which is a shield bearing an ancient galley coming into 
action, bows on, and below that an open book, indicative of education, 
and finally bears the motto, 'Ex Scientia Tridens' (From knowledge, sea 
power)." The trident, emblem of the Roman god Neptune, represents seapower. 
The institution was founded as the Naval School on October 10, 1845 by 
Secretary of the Navy George Bancroft. The campus was established at Annapolis 
on the grounds of the former U.S. Army post Fort Severn. The school opened 
with 50 midshipman students and seven professors. The decision to establish 
an academy on land may have been in part a result of the Somers Affair, 
an alleged mutiny involving the Secretary of War's son that resulted in 
his execution at sea. Commodore Matthew Perry had a considerable interest 
in naval education, supporting an apprentice system to train new seamen, 
and helped establish the curriculum for the United States Naval Academy. 
He was also a vocal proponent of modernization of the navy. Originally 
a course of study for five years was prescribed. Only the first and last 
were spent at the school with the other three being passed at sea. The 
present name was adopted when the school was reorganized in 1850 and placed 
under the supervision of the chief of the Bureau of Ordnance and Hydrography. 
Under the immediate charge of the superintendent, the course of study was 
extended to seven years with the first two and the last two to be spent 
at the school and the intervening three years at sea. The four years of 
study were made consecutive in 1851 and practice cruises were substituted 
for the three consecutive years at sea. The first class of naval academy 
students graduated on 10 June 1854. In 1860, the Tripoli Monument was moved 
to the academy grounds. Later that year in August, the model of the USS 
Somers experiment was resurrected when the USS Constitution, then 60 years 
old, was recommissioned as a school ship for the fourth-class midshipmen 
after a conversion and refitting begun in 1857. She was anchored at the 
yard, and the plebes lived on board the ship to immediately introduce them 
to shipboard life and experiences.[14] The Civil War was disruptive to 
the Naval Academy. Southern sympathy ran high in Maryland. Although riots 
broke out, Maryland did not declare secession. The United States government 
planned to move the school, when the sudden outbreak of hostilities forced 
a quick departure. Almost immediately the three upper classes were detached 
and ordered to sea, and the remaining elements of the academy were transported 
to Fort Adams in Newport, Rhode Island by the USS Constitution in April 
1861, where the academy was set up in temporary facilities and opened in 
May.[15] The Annapolis campus, meanwhile, was turned into a United States 
Army Hospital.[16] The United States Navy was stressed by the situation 
as 24% of its officers resigned and joined the Confederate States Navy, 
including 95 graduates and 59 midshipmen,[14] as well as many key leaders 
involved with the founding and establishment of USNA. The first superintendent, 
Admiral Franklin Buchanan, joined the Confederate States Navy as its first 
and primary admiral. Captain Sidney Smith Lee, the second commandant of 
midshipmen,[17] and older brother of Robert E. Lee, left Federal service 
in 1861 for the Confederate States Navy. Lieutenant William Harwar Parker, 
CSN, class of 1848, and instructor at USNA, joined the Virginia State Navy, 
and then went on to become the superintendent of the Confederate States 
Naval Academy. Lieutenant Charles “Savez” Read may have been "anchor man" 
(graduated last) in the class of 1860, but his later service to the Confederate 
States Navy included defending New Orleans, service on CSS Arkansas and 
CSS Florida, and command of a series of captured Union ships that culminated 
in seizing the US Revenue Cutter Caleb Cushing in Portland, Maine. Lieutenant 
James Iredell Waddell, CSN, a former instructor at the US Naval Academy, 
commanded the CSS Shenandoah. The first superintendent of the United States 
Naval Observatory, advocate[18] of the creation of the United States Naval 
Academy, after whom Maury Hall is named, similarly served in the Confederate 
States Navy. The midshipmen and faculty returned to Annapolis in the summer 
of 1865, just after the war ended. Civil War hero, Admiral David Dixon 
Porter became superintendent in 1865. He found the infrastructure at Annapolis 
a shambles, the result of ill military use during the War. Porter attempted 
to restore the facilities. He concentrated on recruiting naval officers 
as opposed to civilians, a change of philosophy. He recruited teachers 
Stephen B. Luce, future admirals Winfield Scott Schley, George Dewey, and 
William T. Sampson. He reinstated Professor Lockwood. The midshipman battalion 
consisted of four companies. They held dress parades every evening except 
Sunday. Students were termed "cadets", though sometimes "cadet midshipmen"; 
other appellations were used. Porter began organized athletics, usually 
intramural at the time.[19] Antoine Joseph Corbesier immigrated from Belgium 
and was appointed to the position of Swordmaster at USNA in October 1865. 
He coached Navy fencers in intercollegiate competition between 1896 and 
1914. By special act of Congress, he was commissioned a 1st Lieutenant 
in the Marine Corps on 4 March 1914. He died on 26 March 1915 and is buried 
on Hospital Point. In 1867, indoor plumbing and water was supplied to the 
family quarters. In 1868, the figurehead from the USS Delaware, known as 
"Tecumseh" was erected in the yard. Class rings were first issued in 1869. 
Weekly dances were held. Wags called the school "Porter's Dancing Academy." 
President U.S. Grant distributed diplomas to the class of 1869.[19] Porter 
ensured continued room for expansion by overseeing the purchase of 113 
acres (46 ha) across College Creek, later known as hospital point. In 1871, 
color competition began, along with the selection of the color company, 
and a "color girl."[19] In the 1870s, cuts in the military budget resulted 
in graduating much smaller classes. In 1872, 25 graduated. Eight of these 
made the Navy a career.[19] The third class physically hazed the fourth 
class so ruthlessly that Congress passed an anti-hazing law in 1874. Hazing 
continued in more stealthy forms.[19] John H. Conyers of South Carolina 
was the first black admitted on September 21, 1872.[20] After his arrival, 
he was subject to severe, ongoing hazing, including verbal torment, and 
beatings. His classmates even attempted to drown him.[21] Three cadets 
were dismissed as a result, but the abuse, including shunning, continued 
in more subtle forms and Conyers finally resigned in October 1873.[22] 
In 1875, Albert A. Michelson, class of 1873, returned to teach. He began 
his experiments with optics and the physics of light, which resulted in 
the first accurate measure of the speed of light.[23] [clarification needed] 
[19] In 1874, the curriculum was altered to study naval topics in the final 
two years at the academy. In 1878, the academy was awarded a gold medal 
for academics at the Universal Exposition in Paris.[19] The Spanish–American 
War of 1898 greatly increased the academy's importance and the campus was 
almost wholly rebuilt and much enlarged between 1899 and 1906.[citation 
needed] On 23 August 1911, the Navy officers on flight duty at Hammondsport, 
New York, and Dayton, Ohio, were ordered to report for duty at the Engineering 
Experiment Station, Naval Academy, "in connection with the test of gasoline 
motors and other experimental work in the development of aviation, including 
instruction at the aviation school" being set up on Greenbury Point, Annapolis.[24] 
Naval flight training moved to NAS Pensacola, Florida, in January 1914.[25] 
In 1912, the Reina Mercedes, sunk at the Battle of Santiago de Cuba, was 
raised and used as the "brig" ship for the academy.[26] In 1914, the Midshipmen 
Drum and Bugle corps was formed and by 1922 it went defunct. They were 
revived in 1926.[27] Many firsts for minorities occurred during this period. 
In 1877, Kiro Kunitomo, a Japanese citizen, graduated from the academy.[28][29] 
And then in 1879, Robert F. Lopez was the first Hispanic-American to graduate 
from the academy. In the late 19th century, Congress required the academy 
to teach a formal course in hygiene, the only course required by Congress 
of any military academy. Tradition holds that a congressman was particularly 
disgusted by the appearance of a midshipman returned from cruise.[citation 
needed] The navy rowing team won the gold medal at 1920 Summer Olympics 
Games held in Antwerp, Belgium. In 1923, The Department of Physical Training 
was established. The naval academy football team played the University 
of Washington in the Rose Bowl tying 14–14. In 1925, the second-class ring 
dance was started. In 1925, the Midshipmen Drum and Bugle Corps was formally 
reestablished.[27] In 1926, "Navy Blue and Gold", composed by organist 
and choirmaster J. W. Crosley, was first sung in public. It became a tradition 
to sing this alma mater song at the end of student and alumni gatherings 
such as pep rallies and football games, and on graduation day. In 1926, 
Navy won the national collegiate football championship title. In the fall 
of 1929, the Secretary of the Navy gave his approval for graduates to compete 
for Rhodes Scholarships. Six graduates were selected for that honor that 
same year. The Association of American Universities accredited the Naval 
Academy curriculum on 30 October 1930. In 1930, the class of 1891 presented 
a bronze replica of Tecumseh to replace the deteriorating wooden figurehead 
that had been prominently displayed on campus.[19] President Franklin D. 
Roosevelt signed into law an act of Congress (Public Law 73-21, 48 Stat. 
73) on 25 May 1933 providing for the bachelor of science degree for Naval, 
Military, and Coast Guard Academies. Four years later, Congress authorized 
the superintendent to award a bachelor of science degree to all living 
graduates. Reserve officer training was re-established in anticipation 
of World War II in 1941. The academy was certified in 1937 by the Middle 
States Association although with reservations about the academic climate.[30] 
In 1939, the first Yard patrol boat arrived. These were used to train midshipmen 
in ship handling.[32] In 1940, the academy stopped using the Reina Mercedes 
as a brig for disciplining midshipmen, and restricted them to Bancroft 
Hall, instead.[26] In April 1941, superintendent Rear Admiral Russell Willson 
refused to allow the school's lacrosse team to play a visiting team from 
Harvard University because the Harvard team included a black player. Harvard's 
athletic director ordered the player home and the game was played on 4 
April, as scheduled, which Navy won 12–0.[33] A total of 3,319 graduates 
were commissioned during World War II. Dr. Chris Lambertsen held the first 
closed-circuit oxygen SCUBA course in the United States for the Office 
of Strategic Services maritime unit at the academy on 17 May 1943.[34][35] 
In 1945, A Department of Aviation was established. That year a Vice Admiral, 
Aubrey W. Fitch, became superintendent. The naval academy celebrated its 
centennial. During the century of its existence, roughly 18,563 midshipmen 
had graduated, including the class of 1946.[36] The academy and its support 
facilities became part of the Severn River Naval Command from 1941 to 1962.[37] 
An accelerated course was given to midshipmen during the war years which 
affected classes entering during the war and graduating later. The students 
studied year around. This affected the class of 1948 most of all. For the 
only time, a class was divided by academic standing. 1948A graduated in 
June 1947; the remainder, called 1948B, a year later.[30] From 1946 to 
1961, N3N amphibious biplanes were used at the academy to introduce midshipmen 
to flying.[38] On 3 June 1949, Wesley A. Brown, the sixth African-American 
to enter the academy,[21] became the first to graduate, followed several 
years later by Lawrence Chambers, who would become the first African American 
graduate to make flag rank.[39] The 1950 Navy fencing team won the NCAA 
national championship. The Navy eight-man rowing crew won the gold medal 
at 1952 Summer Olympics in Helsinki, Finland. They were also named National 
Intercollegiate Champions.[40] In 1955, the tradition of greasing Herndon 
Monument for plebes to climb to exchange their plebe "dixie cup" covers 
(hats) for a midshipman's cover started. In 1957, the Reina Mercedes, ruined 
by a hurricane, was scrapped.[26] The 1959 fencing team won the NCAA national 
championship, and became the first to do so by placing first in all three 
weapons (foil, épée, and saber). All 3 fencers were selected for the 1960 
Olympic team, as was head coach Andre Deladrier. The Navy-Marine Corps 
Memorial Stadium, funded by donations, was dedicated 26 September 1959. 
Joe Bellino (class of 1961) was awarded the Heisman Trophy on 22 June 1960. 
In 1961, the Naval Academy Foreign Affairs Conference was started. The 
Department of the Interior designated the U.S. Naval Academy a National 
Historic Landmark on 21 August 1961. The 1962 fencing team won the NCAA 
national championship. In 1963, Roger Staubach, class of 1965, was awarded 
the Heisman Trophy. In 1963, the academy changed from a marking system 
based on 4.0 to a letter grade. Midshipmen began referring to the statue 
of Tecumseh as the "god of 2.0" instead of "the god of 2.5", the former 
failing mark.[41] The academy started the Trident Scholar Program in 1963. 
From 3 to 16 juniors are selected for independent study during their final 
year.[42] Professor Samuel Massie became the first African-American faculty 
member in 1966. On 4 June 1969, the first designated engineering degrees 
were granted to qualified graduates of the class of 1969.[40] During the 
period 1968 to 1972, the academy moved beyond engineering to include more 
than 20 majors. In 1970, the James Forrestal Lecture was created. This 
has resulted in various leaders speaking to midshipmen, including Henry 
Kissinger, football coach Dick Vermeil, and Supreme Court Justice Antonin 
Scalia.[43] The 1970s brought change. In 1972, Lieutenant Commander Georgia 
Clark became the first female officer instructor, and Dr. Rae Jean Goodman 
was appointed to the faculty as the first civilian woman. Later in 1972, 
a decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia 
terminated compulsory chapel attendance, which had been in effect since 
1853.[44] In September 1973, the library facility complex was completed 
and named for Fleet Admiral Chester W. Nimitz class of 1905. On 8 August 
1975, Congress authorized women to attend service academies. The class 
of 1980 was inducted with 81 female midshipmen. In 1980, the academy included 
"Hispanic/Latino" as a racial category for demographic purposes; four women 
identified themselves as Hispanic in the class of 1981, and these women 
become the first Hispanic females to graduate from the academy: Carmel 
Gilliland (who had the highest class rank), Lilia Ramirez (who retired 
with the rank of commander), Ina Marie Gomez, and Trinora Pinto.[45] In 
1979, "June Week" was renamed "Commissioning Week" because graduation had 
moved to May.[40] In May 1980, Elizabeth Anne Belzer (later Rowe) became 
the first woman graduate. On 23 May 1984, Kristine Holderied became the 
first woman to graduate at the head of the class. In addition, the class 
of 1984 included the first naturalized Korean-American graduates, all choosing 
commissions in the U.S. Navy. The four Korean-American ensigns were Walter 
Lee, Thomas Kymn, Andrew Kim, and Se-Hun Oh. On 30 July 1987, the Computing 
Sciences Accreditation Board (CSAB) granted accreditation for the Computer 
Science program.[40] In 1991, Midshipman Juliane Gallina, class of 1992, 
became the first woman brigade commander. On 29 January 1994, the first 
genderless service assignment was held. All billets were opened equally 
to men and women with the exception of special warfare and submarine duty. 
On 12 March 1995, Lieutenant Commander Wendy B. Lawrence, class of 1981, 
became a mission specialist in the space shuttle Endeavour. She is the 
first woman USNA graduate to fly in space. To celebrate the 150th Anniversary 
of the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis (1845–1995), the U.S. Post Office 
printed a postage stamp; the First Day of Issue was 10 October 1995. Freedom 
7, America's first space capsule, was placed on display at the visitor 
center as the centerpiece of the "Grads in Space" exhibit on 23 September 
1998. The late Rear Admiral Alan Shepard, class of 1945, had flown Freedom 
7 116.5 miles (187.5 km) into space on 5 May 1961. His historic flight 
marked America's first step in the space race.[40] On 11 September 2001, 
the academy lost 14 alumni in the terrorist attacks on the World Trade 
Center and The Pentagon. The academy was placed under unprecedented high 
security.[40] In August 2007, Superintendent Vice Admiral Jeffrey Fowler 
changed academy policy to limit liberty, required more squad interaction 
to emphasize that "we are a nation at war."[46] On 3 November 2007, the 
navy football team defeated long-time rival Notre Dame for the first time 
in 43 years – 46–44 in triple overtime. The two teams have met every year 
since 1926 and continue a rivalry that became amicable when Notre Dame 
volunteered to open its facilities for training of naval officers in World 
War II.[47] The Navy was credited with saving the University of Notre Dame 
after its enrollment fell during World War II to about 250 students. The 
navy trained 12,000 men to become officers.[48] In November 2007, Memorial 
Hall was the venue for a 50-nation Annapolis Conference on a Palestinian-Israeli 
peace process. The student body is known as the Brigade of Midshipmen. 
Students attending the U.S. Naval Academy are appointed to the rank of 
midshipman and serve on active duty in that rank. Naval Academy midshipmen 
are classified as officers of the line, though their exercise of authority 
is limited by their training status.[49] Legally, midshipmen are a special 
grade of officer that ranks between warrant officer (W-1) and the lowest 
grade of chief warrant officer (W-2). However, midshipmen are not entrusted 
or authorized to exercise Title 10 or Title 50 authority as specified in 
United States Code.[49][50] Midshipmen are classified not as freshmen, 
sophomores, juniors, and seniors, but as fourth class, third class, second 
class, and first class. A member of the entering class—the fourth class, 
the lowest rank of midshipmen—is also known as a "plebe" (plural plebes). 
Because the first year at the Academy is one of transformation from a civilian 
into a military officer, plebes must conform to a number of rules and regulations 
not placed on their seniors—the upper three classes of midshipmen—and have 
additional tasks and responsibilities that disappear upon promotion to 
midshipman third class. Third class midshipmen have been assimilated into 
the brigade and are treated with more respect because they are upperclassmen. 
They are commonly called "youngsters." Because of their new stature and 
rank, the youngsters are allowed such privileges as watching television, 
listening to music, watching movies, and napping. Second class midshipmen 
are charged with training plebes. They report directly to the first class, 
and issue orders as necessary to carry out their responsibilities. Second 
class midshipmen are allowed to drive their own cars (but may not park 
them on campus) and are allowed to enter or exit the Yard (campus) in civilian 
attire (weekends only). First class midshipmen have more freedoms and liberty 
in the brigade, and the most challenging responsibilities. While they must 
participate in mandatory sports and military activities and maintain academic 
standards, they are also charged with the leadership of the Brigade. They 
are commonly called "firsties". Firsties are allowed to park their cars 
on campus and have greater leave and liberty privileges than any other 
class.[51] The Brigade is divided into two regiments of three battalions 
each. Five companies make up each battalion, for a total of 30 companies. 
The midshipman command structure is headed by a first class midshipman 
known as the brigade commander, chosen for outstanding leadership performance. 
He or she is responsible for much of the brigade's day-to-day activities 
as well as the professional training of midshipmen. Overseeing all brigade 
activities is the commandant of midshipmen, an active-duty Navy captain 
or Marine Corps colonel. Working for the commandant, experienced Navy and 
Marine Corps officers are assigned as company and battalion officers.[52] 
Midshipmen at the Academy wear service dress uniforms similar to those 
of U.S. Navy officers, with shoulder-board and/or sleeve insignia varying 
by school year or midshipman officer rank. All wear gold anchor insignia 
on both lapel collars of the service dress blue jacket. Shoulder boards, 
worn on summer white, service/full dress white, and dinner dress white 
uniforms as well as a "soft shoulder board" version on the white, button-up 
shirt of the service/full dress blue uniform have a gold anchor and a number 
of slanted stripes indicating year, except for midshipman first class whose 
have a single, horizontal stripe and midshipman officers (also first class), 
whose shoulder boards have a small gold star in place of the anchor and 
have 1 through 6 horizontal stripes indicating their position. On the winter 
and summer working uniform shirt, a freshman (Midshipman Fourth Class or 
"plebe") wears no collar insignia, a sophomore (Midshipman Third Class 
or "Youngster") wears a single fouled anchor on the right collar point, 
a Junior (Midshipman Second Class) fouled anchors on each collar point, 
and a Senior (Midshipman First Class or "Firstie") wears fouled anchors 
with perched eagles. First class midshipmen in officer billets replace 
those devices with their respective midshipman officer collar insignia. 
Midshipman officer collar insignia are a series of gold bars, from the 
rank of Midshipman Ensign (one bar or stripe) to Midshipman Captain (six 
bars or stripes) in the Brigade of Midshipmen at the U.S. Naval Academy. 
Depending on the season, midshipmen wear Summer Whites or Service Dress 
Blues as their dress uniform, and summer working blues or winter working 
blues as their daily class uniform. In 2008, the first class midshipmen 
wore the service khaki as the daily uniform, but this option was repealed 
following the graduation of the class of 2011. First class midshipmen may 
wear their service selection uniform on second semester Fridays (i.e., 
naval aviator and naval flight officer selectees wear flight suits; submarine 
and surface warfare selectees wear coveralls or Navy Working Uniforms with 
their new command ballcaps; Marine Corps selectees wear MARPAT camouflage 
utilities). A unique uniform consisting of a Navy blue double-breasted 
jacket with brass buttons and high collar, blue or white high-rise trousers 
(white worn during Graduation Week), and duty belt with silver NA buckle, 
is worn for formal parades during spring and autumn parade seasons. During 
commissioning week (formerly known as "June week"), the uniform is summer 
whites. The campus (or "Yard") has grown from a 40,000 square metres (9.9 
acres) Army post named Fort Severn in 1845 to a 1.37 square kilometres 
(340 acres), or 1,375,640 square metres (339.93 acres), campus in the 21st 
century. By comparison, the United States Air Force Academy is 73 square 
kilometres (18,000 acres) and United States Military Academy is 65 square 
kilometres (16,000 acres). The complex includes McMullen Hockey Arena where 
the men's ice-hockey team is located; rugby venues, an indoor hitting, 
chipping and putting facility for the golf team, and the Tose Family Tennis 
Center – including the Fluegel-Moore Tennis Stadium.[60] The Academy baseball 
team plays at the Terwilliger Brothers Field at Max Bishop Stadium. In 
1850, the academy was placed under the jurisdiction of the Navy's Bureau 
of Ordnance and Hydrography but was transferred to the Bureau of Navigation 
when that organization was established in 1862. The academy was placed 
under the direct care of the Navy Department in 1867, but for many years 
the Bureau of Navigation provided administrative routine and financial 
management. As of 2004, the Superintendent of the Naval Academy reports 
directly to the Chief of Naval Operations. The current Superintendent is 
Vice Admiral Walter E. Carter Jr. The current Commandant of Midshipmen 
is Colonel Stephen E. Liszewski, USMC (USNA Class of 1990), a career artillery 
officer and the Academy's 86th Commandant.[72] Roughly 500 faculty members 
are evenly divided between civilian professors and military instructors. 
The civilian professors nearly all have a PhD and can be awarded tenure, 
usually upon promotion from assistant professor to associate professor. 
Fewer of the military instructors have a PhD but nearly all have a master's 
degree. Most of them are assigned to the Academy for only two or three 
years. Additionally, there are adjunct professors, hired to fill temporary 
shortages in various disciplines. The Adjunct Professors are not eligible 
for tenure. A small number of officers at the Academy are designated as 
Permanent Military Professors (PMP), initially at the academic rank of 
Assistant Professor. All PMPs have PhDs, and remain at the Academy until 
statutory retirement. Most are commanders in the Navy; a few are captains. 
Like civilian professors, they seek academic promotion to the rank of Associate 
Professor and Professor. However, they are not eligible for tenure. The 
Class of 1957 Distinguished Chair of Naval Heritage is an academic professorial 
chair in the History Department.[73] In order to preserve and promote a 
better understanding of professional naval heritage in midshipmen at the 
U.S. Naval Academy, the Academy's Class of 1957 donated the funds to permanently 
endow this position. It is designed to be a visiting position for a distinguished 
senior academic historian, who is to hold the post for one or two years. 
The position was first occupied in 2006 and, in addition to teaching requirements, 
the occupant is expected to give the McMullen Seapower Lecture at the Academy's 
biennial McMullen Naval History Symposium. Chair Holders By an Act of Congress 
passed in 1903, two midshipman appointments were allowed for each senator, 
representative, and delegate in Congress, two for the District of Columbia, 
and five each year at large. Currently each member of Congress and the 
Vice President can have five appointees attending the Naval Academy at 
any time. When any appointee graduates or otherwise leaves the academy, 
a vacancy is created. Candidates are nominated by their senator, representative, 
or delegate in Congress, and those appointed at large are nominated by 
the Vice President. The applicants do not have to know their Congressman 
to be nominated. Congressmen generally nominate ten people per vacancy. 
They can nominate people in a competitive manner, or they can have a principal 
nomination. In a competitive nomination, all ten applicants are reviewed 
by the academy, to see who is the most qualified. If the congressman appoints 
a principal nominee, then as long as that candidate is physically, medically, 
and academically found qualified by the academy, he or she will be admitted, 
even if there are more qualified applicants. The degree of difficulty in 
obtaining a nomination varies greatly according to the number of applicants 
in a particular state. The process of obtaining a nomination typically 
consists of completing an application, completing one or more essays, and 
obtaining one or more letters of recommendation and often requires an interview 
either in person or over the phone. These requirements are set by the respective 
senator or congressman and are in addition to the USNA application.[74] 
The Secretary of the Navy may appoint 170 enlisted members of the Regular 
and Reserve Navy and Marine Corps to the Naval Academy each year. Additional 
sources of appointment are open to children of career military personnel 
(100 per year); and 65 appointments are available to children of military 
members who were killed in action, or were rendered 100% disabled due to 
injuries received in action, or are currently prisoners of war or missing 
in action. Typically five to ten candidates are nominated for each appointment, 
which are normally awarded competitively; candidates who do not receive 
the appointment they are competing for may still be admitted to the Academy 
as a qualified alternate. If a candidate is considered qualified but not 
picked up, they may receive an indirect admission to either a Naval Academy 
Foundation prep school or the Naval Academy Preparatory School in Newport; 
the following year, these candidates enlist in the Navy Reserve (or, in 
the case of prior enlisted members, remain in the Navy) and are eligible 
for Secretary of the Navy nominations, which are granted as a matter of 
course. To receive an appointment to the Naval Academy, students at the 
Naval Academy Preparatory School must first pass with a 2.2 QPA (A mix 
of GPA and Fitness Assessments), although this is waiverable. A candidate 
must receive a recommendation for appointment from the Commanding Officer. 
The appointment process has been criticized as giving preferential treatment 
towards athletes.[75] However, children of Medal of Honor recipients are 
automatically appointed to the Naval Academy; they only need to meet admission 
requirements.[76] To be admitted, candidates must be between seventeen 
and twenty-three years of age upon entrance, unmarried with no children, 
and of good moral character. The current process includes a college application, 
personality testing, standardized testing, and personal references. Candidates 
for admission must also undergo a physical aptitude test (the CFA or Candidate 
Fitness Assessment [formerly the Physical Readiness Examination]) as well 
as a complete physical exam including a separate visual acuity test to 
be eligible for appointment. A medical waiver will automatically be sought 
on behalf of candidates with less than 20/20 vision, as well as a range 
of other injuries or illnesses. The physical aptitude test is most often 
administered by a high school physical education teacher or sports team 
coach.[76] A small number of international students, usually from smaller 
allied or friendly countries, are admitted into each class. (International 
students from larger allies, such as France and the United Kingdom, typically 
come as shorter-term exchange students from their national naval colleges 
or academies.) The Class of 2018 includes 13 international students from: 
Cambodia (1), Cameroon (2), Federated States of Micronesia (1), Georgia 
(1), Kazakhstan (1), Korea (1), Mexico (1), Montenegro (1), Nigeria (1), 
Senegal (1), Taiwan (1), and United Arab Emirates (1).[77] In 2009 and 
2010, a professor complained that less than qualified candidates were being 
admitted to the Academy.[78] His complaint has been forwarded to the Chief 
of Naval Operations.[79] The Naval Academy received accreditation as an 
approved "technological institution" in 1930. In 1933, President Franklin 
Roosevelt signed into law an act of Congress providing for the Bachelor 
of Science Degree for the Naval, Military, and Coast Guard Academies. The 
Class of 1933 was the first to receive this degree and have it written 
in the diploma. In 1937, an act of Congress extended to the Superintendent 
of the Naval Academy the authority to award the Bachelor of Science degree 
to all living graduates. The Academy later replaced a fixed curriculum 
taken by all midshipmen with the present core curriculum plus 22 major 
fields of study.[80] Academic departments at the Naval Academy are organized 
into three divisions: Engineering and Weapons, known as Division I, Mathematics 
and Science, known as Division II, and Humanities and Social Sciences, 
known as Division III. Moral and ethical development is fundamental to 
all aspects of the Naval Academy. From Plebe Summer through graduation, 
the Officer Development Program, a four-year integrated program, focuses 
on integrity, honor, and mutual respect based on the moral values of respect 
for human dignity, respect for honesty and respect for the property of 
others.[81] One of the goals of the program is to develop midshipmen to 
possess a sense of their own moral beliefs and the ability to express them. 
Honor is emphasized through the Honor Concept of the Brigade of Midshipmen, 
which states: Midshipmen are persons of integrity: They stand for that 
which is right. They tell the truth and ensure that the full truth is known. 
They do not lie. They embrace fairness in all actions. They ensure that 
work submitted as their own is their own, and that assistance received 
from any source is authorized and properly documented. They do not cheat. 
They respect the property of others and ensure that others are able to 
benefit from the use of their own property. They do not steal.[82] Similar 
ideals are expressed in the honor codes of the other service academies. 
However, midshipmen are allowed to confront someone they see violating 
the code without formally reporting it. It is believed that this method 
is a better way of developing the honor of midshipmen as opposed to the 
non-toleration clauses of the other service academies and is a better way 
of building honor and trust. Brigade Honor Committees composed of upper-class 
midshipmen are responsible for the education and training of the Honor 
Concept. Depending on the severity of the offense, midshipmen found in 
violation of the Honor Concept by their peers can be separated from the 
Naval Academy.[81] Since 1961, the Academy has hosted the annual Naval 
Academy Foreign Affairs Conference (NAFAC), the country's largest undergraduate, 
foreign-affairs conference. NAFAC provides a forum for addressing pressing 
international concerns and seeks to explore current issues from both a 
civilian and military perspective. Each year a unique theme is chosen for 
NAFAC. Noteworthy individuals with expertise in relevant fields are then 
invited to address the conference delegates, who represent civilian and 
military colleges from across the United States and around the globe. The 
entire conference is organized and run by midshipmen, who also serve as 
moderators, presenters, and delegates. The midshipman director is responsible 
for every aspect of the conference, including the conference theme, and 
is generally charged with leading a staff of over 250 midshipmen.[83] Since 
1973, the Naval Academy has hosted a major international conference for 
naval historians. In 2006 it was named after Dr. John J. McMullen, USNA 
Class of 1940. The United States Naval Academy (USNA) Small Satellite Program 
(SSP)[84] was founded in 1999 to actively pursue flight opportunities for 
miniature satellites designed, constructed, tested, and commanded or controlled 
by midshipmen. The USNA MidSTAR Program's first satellite, MidSTAR I was 
launched 8 March 2007.[85] The planned MidSTAR II was canceled. Because 
the majority of graduates commence directly into their military commissions, 
the Naval Academy offers no graduate degree programs. However, a number 
of programs allow midshipmen to obtain graduate degrees before fulfilling 
their service obligation. The Immediate Graduate Education Program (IGEP) 
allows newly commissioned Ensigns or Second Lieutenants to proceed directly 
to graduate school and complete a master's degree. The Voluntary Graduate 
Education Program (VGEP) allows the midshipman to begin his studies the 
second semester of his senior year at a local university, usually University 
of Maryland, Johns Hopkins University, Georgetown University, or George 
Washington University, and complete the degree by the following semester. 
Midshipmen accepted into prestigious scholarships, such as the Rhodes Scholarship 
are permitted to complete their studies before fulfilling their service 
obligation. Finally, the Bowman Scholarship allows Navy Nuclear Power candidates 
to complete master's degrees at the Naval Postgraduate School before continuing 
into the Navy. Participation in athletics is, in general, mandatory at 
the Naval Academy and most midshipmen not on an intercollegiate team must 
participate actively in intramural or club sports. There are exceptions 
for non-athletic Brigade Support Activities such as YP Squadron (a professional 
surface warfare training activity providing midshipmen the opportunity 
to earn the Craftmaster Badge) or the Drum and Bugle Corps. Varsity-letter 
winners wear a specially issued blue cardigan with a large gold "N" patch 
affixed. Teams that beat Army in a year are awarded a gold star to affix 
near the "N" for each such victory. The U.S. Naval Academy's varsity sports 
teams[86] have no official name but usually are referred to in media as 
"the Midshipmen" (since all athletes are, in fact, midshipmen), or more 
informally as "the Mids". The term "middies" is generally considered derogatory.[87] 
The sports teams' mascot is a goat named "Bill." The Midshipmen participate 
in the NCAA's Division I FBS as a member of the American Athletic Conference 
in football and in the NCAA Division I-level Patriot League in many other 
sports. The academy fields 30 varsity sports teams and 13 club sports teams 
(along with 19 intramural sports teams).[86][88] The most important sporting 
event at the academy is the annual Army–Navy Game, in football. The 2015 
season marks Navy's 14th consecutive victory over Army. The three major 
service academies (Navy, Air Force, and Army) compete for the Commander-in-Chief's 
Trophy, which is awarded to the academy that defeats the others in football 
that year (or retained by the previous winner in the event of a three-way 
tie). Navy won the trophy in 2012 after two years of residence at the Air 
Force Academy. Keenan Reynolds (Quarterback 2012-2015) set numerous Navy 
and NCAA records, including the FBS career rushing touchdown record, arguably 
becoming Navy's best quarterback ever. Reynolds finished fifth in the prestigious 
Heisman Trophy voting. In the Army-Navy rivalry, Reynolds became the first 
quarterback to beat Army in four seasons.[89] Naval Academy sports teams 
have many accomplishments at the international and national levels. In 
1926, Navy's football team won the U.S. national championship based on 
both the Boand and Houlgate mathematical poll systems.[90] and the Navy 
men's lacrosse team won 21 USILL or USILA national championships and was 
the NCAA Division I runner-up in 1975 and 2004. The men's fencing team 
won NCAA Division I championships in 1950, 1959, and 1962 and was runner-up 
in 1948, 1953, 1960, and 1963,[91] and NCAA Division I championships were 
also earned by the 1945 men's outdoor track and field team[92] and the 
1964 men's soccer team.[93] The Academy lightweight crew won the 2004 National 
Championship. The lightweights are accredited with two Jope Cup Championships 
as well, finishing the Eastern Sprints with the highest number of points 
in 2006 and 2007. The college's heavyweight crew won Olympic gold medals 
in men's eights in 1920 and 1952,[94] and from 1907 to 1995 at Intercollegiate 
Rowing Association regatta the team earned 30 championships.[95] In intercollegiate 
shooting, the Naval Academy has won nine National Rifle Association rifle 
team trophies, seven air pistol team championships, and five standard pistol 
team titles.[96] Navy's squash team was the national nine-man team champion 
in 1957, 1959, and 1967,[97] and the boxing team was National Collegiate 
Boxing Association champion in 1987, 1996, 1997, 1998, and 2005.[98] There 
is an unofficial (but previous National Champion) croquet team.[99] Legend 
has it that in the early 1980s, a Mid and a Johnnie (slang for a student 
enrolled at St. John's College, Annapolis), were in a bar and the Mid challenged 
the Johnnie by stating that Midshipmen could beat St. John's at any sport. 
The St. John's student selected croquet. Since then, thousands attend the 
annual croquet match between St. John's and the 28th Company[100] of the 
Brigade of Midshipmen (originally the 34th Company before the Brigade was 
reduced to 30 companies). As of 2006,[101] the Midshipmen had a record 
of 5 wins and 19 losses to the St John's team. Notable among a number of 
songs commonly played and sung at various events such as commencement and 
convocation, and athletic games is: “Anchors Aweigh”, the United States 
Naval Academy fight song. According to “College Fight Songs: An Annotated 
Anthology” published in 1998, “Anchors Aweigh" ranks as the fifth greatest 
fight song of all time. Midshipmen have the opportunity to participate 
in a broad range of other extracurricular activities including musical 
performance groups (Drum & Bugle Corps, Men's Glee Club, Women's Glee Club, 
Gospel Choir, an annual musical, a midshipman orchestra, and a bagpipe 
band, the Pipes & Drums), religious organizations, academic honor societies 
such as Omicron Delta Epsilon (an economics honor society), Campus Girl 
Scouts, the National Eagle Scout Association, a radio station (WRNV),[102] 
and Navy and Marine Corps professional activities (diving, flying, seamanship, 
and the Semper Fidelis Society for future Marines). The midshipman theatrical 
company, The Masqueraders, put on one production annually in Mahan Hall. 
There is an intercollegiate debate team.[103] Colleges from along the East 
Coast attend the annual U.S. Naval Academy Debate Tournament. Midshipmen 
also participate in the Sandhurst Competition, a military skills event.[104] 
The Brigade began publishing a humor magazine called The Log in 1913.[105] 
This magazine was discontinued in 2001[106] but returned to print in the 
fall of 2008. Among The Log's usual features were "Salty Sam," an anonymous 
member of the senior class who served as a gossip columnist, and the "Company 
Cuties," photos of male midshipmen's girlfriends. (This last was deemed 
offensive to women, and despite attempts to incorporate the boyfriends 
of female midshipmen in some issues, the "Company Cuties" were dropped 
from The Log's format by 1991.)[107] The Log was once featured in Playboy 
Magazine for its parody of the famous periodical,[108] called "Playmid." 
"Playmid" was an issue of The Log in 1989 and was ordered destroyed by 
Rear Admiral Virgil I. Hill, the Academy Superintendent at the time, but 
a handful of copies did survive, including the one which later showed. 
Earlier Log attempts to parody were much more successful, with the 18 April 
1969, version as the most famous; some sections of this issue can be seen 
online at an alumni website.[109] In September 1949, the Log began publishing 
a half-sized Splinter bi-weekly, to alternate with its larger sized publication.[110][111][111] 
The NDW Police Department-US Naval Academy is a full-service law enforcement 
agency responsible for policing the US Naval Academy complex.[112] The 
Naval Academy first accepted women as midshipmen in 1976, when Congress 
authorized the admission of women to all of the service academies. Women 
comprise about 22 percent of entering plebes.[113] They pursue the same 
academic and professional training as do their male classmates, except 
that certain physical aptitude standards for women are lower than for men, 
mirroring the standards of the Navy itself. Women have most recently composed 
about 17 percent of each graduating class, however this number continues 
to rise. The first pregnant midshipman graduated in 2009. While regulations 
expressly forbade this, the woman was able to receive a waiver from the 
Department of the Navy.[114] In 2006, Michelle J. Howard, class of 1982, 
became the first female graduate of the Naval Academy to be selected for 
admiral; she was also the first admiral from her class. Margaret D. Klein, 
class of 1981, became the first female commandant of midshipmen in December 
2006. Following the 2003 U.S. Air Force Academy sexual assault scandal 
and due to concern with sexual assault in the U.S. military the Department 
of Defense was required to establish a task force to investigate sexual 
harassment and assault at the United States military academies in the law 
funding the military for fiscal 2004. The report, issued 25 August 2005 
showed that during 2004 50% of the women at Annapolis reported instances 
of sexual harassment while 99 incidents of sexual assault were reported.[115] 
There had been an earlier incident in 1990 which involved male midshipmen 
chaining a female midshipman to a urinal and then taking pictures of her 
after she threw a snowball at them.[116] Academy Superintendent Vice Admiral 
Rodney Rempt issued a statement: "With the benefit of the Defense Task 
Force's assessment and recommendations, we will continue to strive to establish 
a climate which encourages reporting of these incidents, so we can support 
the victim and deal with allegations fairly and appropriately. The very 
idea that any member of the Naval Academy family could be part of an environment 
that fosters sexual harassment, misconduct, or even assault is of great 
concern to me, and it is contrary to all we are trying to do and achieve. 
Preventing and deterring this unacceptable behavior is a leadership issue 
that I and all the Academy leaders take to heart. The public trusts that 
the Service Academies will adhere to the highest standards and that we 
will serve as beacons that exemplify character, dignity and respect. We 
will increase our efforts to meet that trust." Superintendent Rempt has 
recently been criticized for not allowing former Navy quarterback Lamar 
Owens to graduate, despite his acquittal on a rape charge. Some alumni 
have attributed this to an overeagerness on Rempt's part to placate critics 
urging a crackdown on sexual assault and harassment.[117] In 1979, James 
H. Webb published a provocative essay opposing the integration of women 
at the Naval Academy titled "Women Can't Fight." Webb was an instructor 
at the Naval Academy in 1979 when he wrote the article for Washingtonian 
magazine that was critical of women in combat and of them attending the 
service academies. The article, in which he referred to the dorm at the 
Naval Academy that housed 4,000 men and 300 women as "a horny woman's dream," 
was written three years after the Academy admitted women. Webb said he 
did not write the headline.[118] On 7 November 2006, Webb was elected to 
the U.S. Senate from Virginia. His election opponent, then senator George 
Allen, raised the 1979 article as a campaign issue, depicting Webb as being 
opposed to women in military service. Webb's response read in part, "I 
am completely comfortable with the roles of women in today's military. 
... To the extent that my writings subjected women at the Academy or the 
active armed forces to undue hardship, I remain profoundly sorry."[119] 
In a political advertisement for Allen five female graduates of the United 
States Naval Academy said the article helped foster an air of hostility 
and harassment towards females within the academy. The Navy Secretary Ray 
Mabus on December 21, 2012, issued a statement of shame over a recent sexual 
abuse study which showed the nation's service academies continue to have 
trouble maintaining safe teaching environments regarding sexual abuse. 
Reported sexual assaults last year declined from 22 to 13 at Annapolis. 
The superintendent, Vice Admiral Mike Miller, has enforced a new academy 
policy, as of January 2013, related to training, victim support, campus 
security, leadership presence on weekends, and a general review of alcohol 
policy based on other information in the recent report which shows the 
actual number of sexual assaults has not declined and that offenses are 
not reported.[120] Some traditions have been around for a century or more. 
Some traditions of the Naval Academy are handed down from class to class. 
Some have been recorded over the years in academy publications. Stand Navy 
down the field, sails set to the sky. We'll never change our course, so 
Army you steer shy-y-y-y. Roll up the score, Navy, Anchors Aweigh. Sail 
Navy down the field and sink the Army, sink the Army Grey.[121] Blue and 
Gold Now college men from sea to sea may sing of colors true, But who has 
better right than we, to hoist a symbol hue, For sailor men in battle fair, 
since fighting days of old, Have proved the sailor's right to wear, the 
Navy Blue and Gold! "Beat Army!" Four years together by the bay where Severn 
joins the tide, And by the service called away we scatter far and wide. 
But still when two or three shall meet and old tales be retold, From low 
to highest in the Fleet, we'll pledge the Blue and Gold! Blue and Gold 
Now colleges from sea to sea may sing of colors true, But who has better 
right than we, to hoist a symbol hue? For sailors brave in battle fair, 
since fighting days of old, Have proved the sailor's right to wear, the 
Navy Blue and Gold! "Beat Army!"[121] Many of his letters today are relished 
not because of the reforms there advocated but because of the hilarious 
way he presented them ... he was addicted to poetry as a means of expression; 
he put forth his ideas in rhyme whenever possible, sometimes to the despair 
of his more serious fellows – but others were occasionally enticed to respond 
in kind. The war on paper could well be waged in poetry, he felt, for it 
at least kept the mind higher. The older and more senior he became, the 
more would he try to lighten the mood of his cohorts by humor in prose 
and poetry, though the latter, many said, became increasingly atrocious 
the more elevated its author's naval rank. Still it served its purpose 
admirably. As a junior officer it was a way to cloak his ideas in a patina 
of genteel wardroom horseplay, with the barb of criticism perfunctorily 
covered. The United States Naval Academy Alumni Association defines “alumni” 
as graduates of the United States Naval Academy and former midshipmen who 
did not graduate from the Academy, after the last Academy class of which 
they were a member has graduated.[132] This policy to include non-graduates 
dates to 1931—during the Great Depression—when many midshipmen had to leave 
the Naval Academy to return home to work and support their families. Over 
50 U.S. astronauts (including six who flew to the Moon)[note 1] have graduated 
from the Naval Academy, more than from any other undergraduate institution 
in the United States. Over 990 noted scholars in a variety of academic 
fields are Academy graduates, including 46 Rhodes Scholars and 24 Marshall 
Scholars. Additional notable graduates include one President of the United 
States (Jimmy Carter) who is also a Nobel laureate, one other Nobel Prize 
recipients (the first American scientist to win a Nobel Prize) and 73 Medal 
of Honor recipients. The magazine "Shipmate" is the official magazine of 
the Naval Academy Alumni Association and is distributed worldwide to members 
of the Alumni Association and to midshipmen, parents, faculty, administrators, 
donors, legislators, and friends.[133] In 2012, Sam Tan Wei Shen, a Singaporean, 
was the first-ever foreigner to graduate first in his class in the history 
of the Academy.[134] Coordinates: 38°58′59″N 76°29′06″W﻿ / ﻿38.983°N 76.485°W﻿ 
