Coordinates: 38°59′15″N 76°56′24″W﻿ / ﻿38.98750°N 76.94000°W﻿ / 38.98750; 
-76.94000 The University of Maryland, College Park (often referred to as 
The University of Maryland, Maryland, UM, UMD, UMCP, or College Park) is 
a public research university[10] located in the city of College Park in 
Prince George's County, Maryland, approximately 4 miles (6.4 km) from the 
northeast border of Washington, D.C. Founded in 1856, the university is 
the flagship institution of the University System of Maryland. With a fall 
2010 enrollment of more than 37,000 students, over 100 undergraduate majors, 
and 120 graduate programs, Maryland is the largest university in the state 
and the largest in the Washington Metropolitan Area.[8][11] It is a member 
of the Association of American Universities and competes in athletics as 
a member of the Big Ten Conference. The University of Maryland's proximity 
to the nation's capital has resulted in research partnerships with the 
Federal government. Members of the faculty receive research funding and 
institutional support from agencies such as the National Institutes of 
Health, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology, and the Department of Homeland Security.[citation 
needed] The operating budget of the University of Maryland during the 2009 
fiscal year was projected to be approximately $1.531 billion.[12] For the 
same fiscal year, the University of Maryland received a total of $518 million 
in research funding, surpassing its 2008 mark by $118 million.[13] As of 
May 11, 2012, the university's "Great Expectations" campaign had exceeded 
$950 million in private donations.[14] On March 6, 1856, the forerunner 
of today's University of Maryland was chartered as the Maryland Agricultural 
College. Two years later, Charles Benedict Calvert, a future U.S. Congressman, 
purchased 420 acres (1.7 km2) of the Riverdale Plantation in College Park. 
Calvert founded the school later that year. On October 5, 1859, the first 
34 students entered the Maryland Agricultural College.[1] The school became 
a land grant college in February 1864.[1] During the Civil War, Confederate 
soldiers under Brigadier General Bradley Tyler Johnson moved past the college 
on July 12, 1864 as part of Jubal Early's raid on Washington, D.C.[15] 
By the end of the war, financial problems forced the administrators to 
sell off 200 acres (81 ha) of land, and the continuing decline in enrollment 
sent the Maryland Agricultural College into bankruptcy. For the next two 
years the campus was used as a boys preparatory school.[1] Following the 
Civil War, in February 1866 the Maryland legislature assumed half ownership 
of the school. The college thus became in part a state institution. By 
October 1867, the school reopened with 11 students. In the next six years, 
enrollment grew and the school's debt was paid off. In 1873, Samuel Jones, 
a former Confederate Major General, became president of the college. Twenty 
years later, the federally funded Agricultural Experiment Station was established 
there. During the same period, state laws granted the college regulatory 
powers in several areas—including controlling farm disease, inspecting 
feed, establishing a state weather bureau and geological survey, and housing 
the board of forestry.[1] Morrill Hall (the oldest instructional building 
still in use on campus) was built the following year.[1] On November 29, 
1912, a fire destroyed the barracks where the students were housed, all 
the school's records, and most of the academic buildings, leaving only 
Morrill Hall untouched. There were no injuries or fatalities, and all but 
two students returned to the university and insisted on classes continuing.[1] 
Students were housed by families in neighboring towns until housing could 
be rebuilt, although a new administration building was not built until 
the 1940s.[1] A large brick and concrete compass inlaid in the ground designates 
the former center of campus as it existed in 1912. The state took control 
of the school in 1916, and the institution was renamed Maryland State College. 
That year, the first female students enrolled at the school. On April 9, 
1920, the college became part of the existing University of Maryland, replacing 
St. John's College, Annapolis as the University's undergraduate campus.[16][17] 
In the same year, the graduate school on the College Park campus awarded 
its first PhD degrees and the university's enrollment reached 500 students. 
In 1925 the university was accredited by the Association of American Universities.[1] 
By the time the first black students enrolled at the university in 1951, 
enrollment had grown to nearly 10,000 students—4,000 of whom were women. 
Prior to 1951, many black students in Maryland were enrolled at the University 
of Maryland, Eastern Shore.[18] In 1957 President Wilson H. Elkins made 
a push to increase academic standards at the University. His efforts resulted 
in the creation of one of the first Academic Probation Plans. The first 
year the plan went into effect, 1,550 students (18% of the total student 
body) faced expulsion. Phi Beta Kappa established a chapter at the university 
in 1964. In 1969, the university was elected to the Association of American 
Universities. The school continued to grow, and by the fall of 1985 reached 
an enrollment of 38,679.[1] Like many colleges during the Vietnam War, 
the university was the site of student protests and had curfews enforced 
by the National Guard.[19] In a massive 1988 restructuring of the state 
higher education system, the school was designated as the flagship campus 
of the newly formed University of Maryland System (later changed to the 
University System of Maryland in 1997) and was formally named University 
of Maryland, College Park. All of the five campuses in the former network 
were designated as distinct campuses in the new system. However, in 1997 
the Maryland General Assembly passed legislation allowing the University 
of Maryland, College Park, to be known simply as the University of Maryland, 
recognizing the campus' role as the flagship institution of the University 
System of Maryland.[20] The other University System of Maryland institutions 
with the name "University of Maryland" are not satellite campuses of the 
University of Maryland, College Park. The University of Maryland, Baltimore, 
is the only other school permitted to confer certain degrees from the "University 
of Maryland". In 2004, the university began constructing the 150-acre (61 ha) 
"M Square Research Park," which includes facilities affiliated with the 
U.S. Department of Defense, Food and Drug Administration, and the new National 
Center for Weather and Climate Prediction, affiliated with The National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).[21] In May 2010, ground 
was broken on a new $128-million, 158,068-square-foot (14,685.0 m2) Physical 
Science Complex, including an advanced quantum science laboratory.[22] 
Wallace Loh became President of the University in 2010.[4] The University 
of Maryland offers 127 undergraduate degrees and 112 graduate degrees in 
thirteen colleges and schools: Undergraduate education is centered on both 
a student's chosen academic program and the selection of core coursework 
to fulfill general education requirements.[23] For Spring 2010, the average 
undergraduate GPA for women was 3.22 and 3.05 for undergraduate men.[24] 
The university hosts "living-learning" programs which allow students with 
similar academic interests to live in the same residential community, take 
specialized courses, and perform research in those areas of expertise. 
An example is the Honors College, which is geared towards students meeting 
academic requirements and consists of several of the university's honors 
programs. The Honors College welcomes students into a community of faculty 
and undergraduates. The Honors College offers seven living and learning 
programs: Advanced Cyber Security, Digital Cultures & Creativity, Entrepreneurship 
and Innovation, Honors Humanities, Gemstone, Integrated Life Sciences, 
and University Honors.[25] The nation's first living-learning entrepreneurship 
program, Hinman CEOs, is geared toward students who are interested in starting 
their own business.[35] Students from all academic disciplines live together 
and are provided the resources to explore business ventures. The QUEST 
(Quality Enhancement Systems and Teams) Honors Fellows Program engages 
undergraduate students from business, engineering, and computer, mathematical, 
and physical sciences. QUEST Students participate in courses focused on 
cross-functional collaboration, innovation, quality management, and teamwork.[36] 
The Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering (CEE) has also been 
long considered an outstanding engineering division of the university since 
its inception in 1908.[37] Other living-learning programs include: CIVICUS, 
a two-year program in the College of Behavioral and Social Sciences based 
on the five principles of civil society;[38] Global Communities, a program 
that immerses students in a diverse culture (students from all over the 
world live in a community),[39] and the Language House,[40] which allows 
students pursuing language courses to live and practice with other students 
learning the same language. The university's faculty has included four 
Nobel Prize laureates. The earliest recipient, Juan Ramón Jiménez, was 
a professor of Spanish language and literature and won the 1956 prize for 
literature. Four decades later, physics professor William Daniel Phillips 
won the prize in physics for his contributions to laser cooling, a technique 
to slow the movement of gaseous atoms in 1997. In 2005, professor emeritus 
of economics and public policy Thomas Schelling was awarded the prize in 
economics for his contributions to game theory. In 2006, adjunct professor 
of physics and senior astrophysicist at NASA John C. Mather was awarded 
the prize in physics alongside George Smoot for their work in the discovery 
of blackbody form and anisotropy of the cosmic microwave background radiation. 
In addition, two University of Maryland alumni are Nobel Prize laureates; 
Herbert Hauptman won the 1985 prize in chemistry and Raymond Davis Jr. 
won the 2002 prize in physics. The university has many notable academics. 
Professor of mathematics Sergei Novikov won the Fields Medal in 1970 followed 
by alumnus Charles Fefferman in 1978. Alumnus George Dantzig won the 1975 
National Medal of Science for his work in the field of linear programming. 
Professor of physics Michael Fisher won the Wolf Prize in 1980 (together 
with Kenneth G. Wilson and Leo Kadanoff) and the IUPAP Boltzmann Medal 
in 1983. James A. Yorke, a Distinguished University Professor of Mathematics 
and Physics and chair of the Mathematics Department won the 2003 Japan 
Prize for his work in chaotic systems. In 2013, professor of Physics Sylvester 
James Gates was awarded the National Medal of Science.[41] On October 14, 
2004, the university added 150 acres (61 ha) in an attempt to create the 
largest research park inside the Washington, D.C., Capital Beltway, known 
as "M Square."[42] The University of Maryland's location near Washington, 
D.C. has created strong research partnerships with government agencies. 
Many of the faculty members have funding from federal agencies such as 
the National Science Foundation, the National Institutes of Health,[43] 
NASA,[44] the Department of Homeland Security,[45] the National Institute 
of Standards and Technology, and the National Security Agency. These relationships 
have created numerous research opportunities for the university including: 
*taking the lead in the nationwide research initiative into the transmission 
and prevention of human and avian influenza.[46] The University of Maryland 
Libraries provide access to scholarly information resources required to 
meet the missions of the university. The University of Maryland is an international 
center for the study of language, hosting the largest community of language 
scientists in North America, including more than 200 faculty, researchers, 
and graduate students, who collectively comprise the Maryland Language 
Science Center under the leadership of Professor Colin Phillips. Since 
2008 the university has hosted an NSF-IGERT interdisciplinary graduate 
training program that has served as a catalyst for broader integrative 
efforts in language science, with 50 participating students and contributions 
from 50 faculty. The University of Maryland is also home to two key 'migrator' 
centers that connect basic research to critical national needs in education 
and national security: the Center for Advanced Study of Language (CASL) 
and the National Foreign Language Center (NFLC). The Center for American 
Politics and Citizenship provides citizens and policy-makers with research 
on issues related to the United States' political institutions, processes, 
and policies. CAPC is a non-partisan, non-profit research institution within 
the Department of Government and Politics in the College of Behavioral 
and Social Sciences. The Space Systems Laboratory researches human-robotic 
interaction for astronautics applications, and includes the only neutral 
buoyancy facility at a university. The Center for Technology and Systems 
Management (CTSM) aims to advance the state of technology and systems analysis 
for the benefit of people and the environment. The focus is on enhancing 
safety, efficiency and effectiveness by performing reliability, risk, uncertainty 
or decision analysis studies. The Joint Global Change Research Institute 
was formed in 2001 by the University of Maryland and the Pacific Northwest 
National Laboratory. The institute focuses on multidisciplinary approaches 
of climate change research. The Center for Advanced Life Cycle Engineering 
(CALCE) was formed in 1985 at the University of Maryland. CALCE is dedicated 
to providing a knowledge and resource base to support the development of 
electronic components, products and systems. The National Consortium for 
the Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism (START) launched in 2005 
as one of the Centers of Excellence supported by the Department of Homeland 
Security in the United States. START is focused on the scientific study 
of the causes and consequences of terrorism in the United States and around 
the world. Admittance to the university have become highly selective. According 
to the US News and World Report, Maryland is rated "more selective" with 
a 46.9 percent acceptance rate in fall 2013.[47] The university receives 
about 28,000 applications a year for a freshman class of 4,000, along with 
6,500 transfer applications for 2,000 available transfer spots.[48] The 
incoming class for fall 2015 has a middle 50% SAT of 1260–1420 and ACT 
of 29–33.[49] The incoming freshman class has a strong A-/B+ or better 
average in all coursework with many courses being honors, Advanced Placement, 
and International Baccalaureate courses.[50] The incoming Fall 2015 admitted 
transfer profile has a 3.38 GPA.[51] The fall semester priority application 
deadline for freshman students is November 1 and transfer students is March 
1.[52] The fall semester regular deadline for freshman and transfer students 
is January 20.[52] December 1 is the priority deadline for freshman students 
who wish to apply for the spring semester while August 1 is the priority 
deadline for transfer students who wish to apply for the spring semester.[53] 
The university is ranked as tied for 60th in the 2017 U.S. News and World 
Report rankings of "National Universities" across the United States, and 
it is ranked tied for 20th nationally among public universities.[62] An 
October, 2014 publication from Business Insider ranked the University of 
Maryland #9 in "Smartest Public Colleges in America"[63] The Academic Ranking 
of World Universities ranked Maryland as 52nd in the world in 2016. The 
2015–2016 Times Higher Education World University Rankings placed Maryland 
117th in the world. The 2016/17 QS World University Rankings ranked Maryland 
131st in the world. The university is among Peace Corps' 25 Top Volunteer-Producing 
Colleges 2015.[64] Kiplinger's Personal Finance 100 Best Values in Public 
Colleges 2015 ranked the University 9th for in-state students.[65] For 
the third consecutive year in 2014, the university is ranked 1st in the 
number of Boren Scholarship recipients – with 12 undergraduates receiving 
awards for intensive international language study.[66] In 2016, University 
of Maryland ranked in the Top 50 Online Colleges with the Highest Student 
Satisfaction by OnlineCollegePlan.com.[67] The campus of the university 
is noted for its red-brick Georgian buildings and its large central lawn, 
named McKeldin Mall.[68] White columns decorate many buildings, with around 
770 columns existing on campus.[69] Spanning the university's 1,250 acres 
(5.1 km2) are 7,500 documented trees and garden plantings, leading the 
American Public Gardens Association to designate the campus the University 
of Maryland Arboretum & Botanical Garden in 2008.[70] The designation has 
allowed the university to showcase species and gardens, including native 
plantings. There are arboretum tours, such as the centralized Tree Walking 
Tour which is based around McKeldin Mall and features 56 specimen trees. 
Additionally, there are nearly 400 acres (1.6 km2) of urban forest located 
on campus[70] and the National Arbor Day Foundation has named the university 
to its 'Tree Campus USA' list.[71] The recreational Paint Branch Trail, 
part of the Anacostia Tributary Trails system, cuts through campus, as 
does the Paint Branch stream, a tributary of the Northeast Branch Anacostia 
River.[72] McKeldin Mall serves as the center of campus. On the east and 
west ends of McKeldin Mall lie the Main Administration Building and McKeldin 
Library. Academic buildings surround McKeldin Mall on the north and south 
ends, and are the homes to many departments in the College of Behavioral 
and Social Sciences, College of Arts and Humanities, and the College of 
Agriculture and Natural Resources. West of McKeldin Mall is the North Hill 
Community, and south of McKeldin Mall lies Morrill Hall and the Morrill 
Quad, which was the original center of campus. South of the Morrill Quad 
are the South Hill and South Campus Commons Communities, and to the southwest 
is the Southwest Mall and the Robert H. Smith School of Business. Running 
parallel to McKeldin Mall to the north is Campus Drive, the main thoroughfare 
through campus. The Adele H. Stamp Student Union sits along Campus Drive 
near the center of campus, and serves as a transit center for campus, where 
Shuttle-UM (the university's bus service) and municipal buses pick up and 
drop off passengers. Hornbake Plaza home to Hornbake Library and several 
buildings housing academic departments also lies on Campus Drive, east 
of Stamp. Outside of the Stamp Student Union on Campus Drive is the Jim 
Henson Statue and Memorial Garden, in honor of the late Jim Henson, a Maryland 
alumnus. A likeness of Henson is seated on a park bench, facing arguably 
his most famous creation, Kermit the Frog.[73] To the north and northwest 
of Stamp and Hornbake Plaza are the North Campus communities, Maryland 
Stadium, the Eppley Recreation Center (the main gym on campus), the XFINITY 
Center, and the Wooded Hillock, a 22-acre (8.9 ha) forest located next 
to the XFINITY Center; Stadium Drive runs between the more southern Maryland 
Stadium and the rest of these. The Clarice Smith Performing Arts Center 
sits to the west of Maryland Stadium. Another thoroughfare, Regents Drive, 
runs perpendicular to McKeldin Mall and is home to the iconic Memorial 
Chapel and the Campus Farms. Regents Drive crosses Campus Drive at the 
campus hallmark "M" Circle, which is a traffic circle with a large "M" 
formed by flowers in its center.[74] The northeast quadrant of campus, 
formed by Campus and Regent Drives, is home to many of natural sciences 
and applied sciences departments. The university is also divided by U.S. 
Route 1, known locally as "Baltimore Avenue." While most of campus lies 
to the west of Baltimore Avenue, fixtures such as fraternity row and the 
Leonardtown Communities lie to the east. Sitting on the western edge of 
Baltimore Avenue are the Visitors' Center, also known as The Dairy, The 
Reckord Armory, and The Rossborough Inn, which, built during the years 
of 1798 to 1812, is the oldest building on campus (and is older than the 
university itself).[75] There are five regularly used entrances to campus; 
the main entrance, off of Baltimore Avenue and onto Campus Drive, is referred 
to as North Gate and features The Gatehouse, an ornate gateway honoring 
the university's founders.[76] The 140-acre (57 ha), 18-hole University 
of Maryland Golf Course sits at the northern edge of campus, as does the 
Observatory. The campus is also home to one of the Root Servers, responsible 
with operating DNS. The campus is located 20 miles (32 km) away from Fort 
Meade which houses the headquarters of the National Security Agency.[77] 
The four-person Office of Sustainability was created in summer 2007 after 
University President Dan Mote became charter signatory of the American 
College and Universities Presidents Climate Commitment (ACUPCC) with the 
goal of campus climate neutrality. The Climate Action Plan Work Group completed 
an inventory of campus emissions from 2002 to 2007, and finalized a Climate 
Action Plan in August 2009.[78] According to the university's Climate Action 
Plan, Maryland aims to become carbon neutral by 2050.[79] All new constructions 
and major renovations must satisfy LEED-Silver certification requirements. 
The office has promoted several initiatives, including an increase in the 
recycling rate from 37% to a 54% recycling rate in 2008, due in part to 
the "Feed the Turtle" program for home football games.[80] Power Shift, 
a national youth climate activism summit, was held at the University of 
Maryland in November 2007 with 6,000 individuals in attendance.[81] The 
university's first Leed Gold building, Knight Hall, opened in April 2010 
as the new home for the Philip Merrill College of Journalism.[82][83] The 
university added solar panels in the spring of 2010 to the roof of "The 
Diner" dining hall in North Campus, and plans to add solar panels to the 
roof of Cole Field House, as well as additional campus buildings.[84] The 
university's announced 158,068-square-foot (14,685.0 m2) state-of-the-art 
Physical Sciences Complex (set to be completed in July 2013) will meet 
LEED-Silver certification requirements.[85][86] In 2008, the Office of 
Sustainability started the Sustainability Advisors program, in which teachers 
invite a peer educator to give a lecture covering sustainability concepts.[87] 
The Office of Sustainability began an initiative called "The Chesapeake 
Project" in 2009, in which professors integrate sustainability education 
into pre-existing classes across every discipline.[88] Participating professors 
attend a two-day workshop in late May to learn about environmental, economic, 
and social sustainability.[88] All participants receive a $500 stipend. 
By the end of summer, workshop participants submit a revised course plan 
for at least one course offered the following academic year. Since the 
inaugural workshop in 2009, 71 professors have participated in the program, 
implementing sustainability education into over 80 courses across all 12 
colleges at the school.[88] Starting in 2010, the University System of 
Maryland and the Department of General Services began three projects that 
were to be continued for the next twenty years. The three projects included: 
a solar project in Mount St. Mary's University, a wind project in Western 
Maryland, and another wind project in West Virginia. The first of these 
projects, the solar project, is a 16 megawatt project. The first wind project 
is 10 megawatts, and the second is 55 megawatts. The projects will allow 
the university to receive 15 percent of their purchased energy from these 
renewable energy resources. Also in 2010, the university's dining hall, 
Ellicott Dining Hall, installed solar panels which would provide up to 
30 percent of the energy for water heating in the dining hall. To do this 
the university installed 20 panels with 3 solar storage tanks, pumps, temperature 
sensors, and controls. The system will increasingly provide more of the 
dining hall's water needs due to the storage tanks.[88] In 2011, Maryland's 
team won the Solar Decathlon, a competition put on by the U.S. Department 
of Energy.[89][90] The team designed and built a solar-powered home with 
a split butterfly roof in a project called "WaterShed."[91] The house was 
"inspired and guided by the Chesapeake Bay ecosystem, interconnecting the 
house with its landscape, and leading its dwellers toward a more sustainable 
lifestyle," according to their website. Over 200 students contributed to 
the project. Maryland's design beat out submissions from 20 other universities 
from all over the world, including China, New Zealand, Belgium, and Canada.[89] 
On December 2, 2011 the University Senate approved the implementation of 
a sustainability minor.[92] Students could begin working towards the minor 
during the spring semester of that academic year, as the minor uses classes 
that are already offered. The minor is 15 credits.[93] Maryland also promotes 
the use of reusable to-go containers at the dining hall, or OZZI containers, 
since the official launching of the program in August 2011[94] Students 
pay a $5 fee to initially use the container, but receive a coin when they 
return it to the dispenser. With the coin, the use of the container is 
cost-free. In January 2011, Maryland installed occupancy sensors in nearly 
all of the 300 general-purpose classrooms.[95] These occupancy sensors 
automatically turn off the lights after 30 minutes if there is no motion 
in a room. The project is estimated to cut energy consumption by 30 percent 
and save the university $100,000 annually.[95] In 2012, the University 
Sustainability fund granted $130,000 to projects that promote sustainability.[96] 
The money was generated from an $8 mandatory sustainability fee, a fee 
that will increase to $12 by 2014. Mark Stewart, Project Manager at the 
Office of Sustainability, expects the fund to grow to $300,000 by 2013.[96] 
On May 2, 2012 the Wellness Coalition hosted its first Farmers Market at 
Maryland, a weekly tradition that supplies produce from farms in Maryland, 
Pennsylvania, and Virginia.[97] Its first day saw over 1,000 visitors.[98] 
In October 2013 the University's College of Behavioral and Social Sciences 
(BSOS) became the university's first college to form their own Sustainability 
Task Force. In April 2014 the Task Force produced BSOS's Sustainability 
Plan to advance campus sustainability and complement the University's Climate 
Action Plan to help the university become a national model of a green university. 
It is the first plan of its kind at the college level at the university, 
and was designed to serve as a guide for other colleges to join BSOS in 
this effort to improve the sustainability of the campus and community as 
a whole.[99] In September 2014 the BSOS Sustainability Task Force expanded 
to include a student Sustainability Task Force. The student Task Force 
is an interdisciplinary team focused on addressing sustainability problems 
on campus.[100] There are two main residential areas on campus, North Campus 
and South Campus, which are further divided into seven residential communities. 
North Campus is made up of Cambridge Community (which consists of five 
residence halls), Denton Community (which currently consists of four halls, 
including Oakland hall which opened in the fall semester of 2011), and 
Ellicott Community (consisting of three halls). South Campus includes the 
North Hill Community, made up of nine Georgian-style halls located immediately 
west of McKeldin Mall, South Hill Community, made up of fourteen small 
residence halls for upperclassmen, Leonardtown Community, which offers 
apartment-style living and is further divided into Old Leonardtown (consisting 
of six buildings) and New Leonardtown (also consisting of six buildings), 
the South Campus Commons Community, which consists of seven apartment-style 
buildings (the seventh and most recent building being opened in January 
2010), and the Courtyards, a garden style apartment community in north 
campus consisting of seven buildings. The South Campus Commons Community 
and Courtyards, while built on campus, are managed by a private company, 
Capstone On-Campus Management, as part of a public-private partnership 
between the company and the University of Maryland. The university does 
not have family housing. As of 2011 some students with families have advocated 
for the addition of family housing.[101] Residential life is overseen by 
the Department of Resident Life, which consists of a staff members and 
departments. For instance, Resident assistants, who are full-time undergraduates 
facilitating the student interaction and development of floors within their 
assigned floor, building, or community, are supervised by Resident directors. 
The Department of Resident Life offers its residents and other students 
many programs, including the Math Success Program, Academic Success Program, 
Common Ground Dialogue Program, and many Living and Learning programs.[102] 
There are two main dining halls on campus: The North Campus Dining Hall 
("The Diner") is located in the Ellicott Community, and the South Campus 
Dining Hall is located near the South Hill and South Campus Commons communities. 
Located in the Denton Community, 251 North is the third dining hall on 
campus and features the first all-you-can-eat style dining experience on 
campus. A food court in the Stamp Student Union provides a plethora of 
dining options for the university community. The university is served by 
the three airports which exist in the greater Washington metropolitan area. 
A small public airport in College Park, College Park Airport, lies nearly 
adjacent to campus, but operations are limited. A free shuttle service, 
known as Shuttle-UM, is available for UMD students, faculty, and staff. 
The university is served by an off-campus stop on the Washington DC Metro 
Green Line called College Park – University of Maryland. The station is 
also served by the Camden Line of the MARC train, which runs between Baltimore 
and Washington. A Shuttle-UM bus (Route 104) arrives at the metro station 
every five minutes during fall and spring semesters (every ten minutes 
during the summer) to bring all visitors to campus (stopping in front of 
the Stamp Student Union). The DC Metrobus and the Prince George's County 
TheBus bus services also stop on campus. There is an additional service 
called Nite Ride which is a curb-to-curb service offered every night from 
5:30 pm to 7:30 am. The service is designed to serve the areas of campus 
that are not included on the evening service routes. In addition, beginning 
in early 2012, Prince George's County TheBus bus services were made free 
of charge to all students and staff.[103][needs update] Over 21,000 parking 
spaces are on campus, in parking lots and garages.[104] Zipcar service 
is also available on campus for all UMD students, faculty, and staff.[105] 
The university has been attempting to make the campus more bike-friendly 
by installing covered bike parking and bike lockers on campus,[106] introducing 
a bike-sharing program,[107] and plans to add more bike lanes on campus.[108] 
As of Spring 2011, the university has encouraged cycling on campus by installing 
covered bike storage outside of the newly built Oakland dorm as well as 
security lockers in the Mowatt Lane Garage.[109][110] In addition to increased 
storage options, the University runs the Campus Bike Shop where students 
can get their bikes repaired and learn how to maintain them on their own.[111] 
The installation of one or more light-rail stops on campus as a part of 
metropolitan Washington's proposed Purple Line is an ongoing debate.[112][113] 
The Diamondback is the independent student newspaper of the university. 
It was founded in 1910 as The Triangle and renamed in 1921 in honor of 
a local reptile, the Diamondback terrapin, which became the school mascot 
in 1933. The newspaper is published daily Monday through Friday during 
the spring and fall semesters, with a print circulation of 17,000 and annual 
advertising revenues of over $1 million.[114] It has four sections: News, 
Opinion, Sports, and Diversions. For the 2008–2009 school year, "The Diamondback" 
earned a Mark of Excellence award from the Society of Professional Journalists, 
placing second nationally for Best All-Around Daily Student Newspaper and 
first in its region in the same category.[115] Three years earlier the 
newspaper had finished third place nationally for Best All-Around Daily 
Student Newspaper and first in its region.[116] Notable journalists who 
have been with The Diamondback include David Simon of HBO's The Wire and 
NBC's Homicide: Life on the Street, disgraced Jayson Blair, who was editor-in-chief 
in 1996 (Blair did not graduate, instead taking a job with The New York 
Times); Norman Chad, who was editor-in-chief in 1978; cartoonists Jeff 
Kinney, who created the Diary of a Wimpy Kid fiction series and whose Igdoof 
strip appeared in The Diamondback; Aaron McGruder, who first published 
his cartoon The Boondocks in The Diamondback; and Frank Cho, who began 
his career with the popular "University Squared" for The Diamondback. WMUC-FM 
(88.1 FM) is the university non-commercial radio station, staffed by UMD 
students and volunteers. WMUC is a freeform radio station that broadcasts 
at 10 watts. Its broadcasts can be heard throughout the Washington metropolitan 
area. Notable WMUC alumni include Connie Chung, Bonnie Bernstein, and Aaron 
McGruder. About 12% of men and 17% of women in Maryland's undergraduate 
student body are involved in Greek life.[117] Many of the fraternities 
and sororities at the school are located on Fraternity Row and the Graham 
Cracker, which are controlled by the University. Fraternity Row is the 
background of several recently produced films. All social Greek organizations 
are governed by one of five groups: the Inter-Fraternity Council, the Panhellenic 
Association, the Pan-Hellenic Council, the United Greek Council, or the 
Professional Fraternal Association. All cultural Greek organizations are 
governed by the United Greek Council. These councils assist in the creation 
and governance of chapter by-laws, risk management plans, and philanthropic 
activities, with support from the Department of Fraternity and Sorority 
Life.[118] Each year, every Greek organization must fulfill certain requirements, 
including doing a service and conducting a program/event related to community 
service, diversity, or alumni and faculty outreach. The university sponsors 
varsity athletic teams in 20 men's and women's sports. The teams, named 
the "Terrapins", represent Maryland in National Collegiate Athletic Association 
Division I competition. Maryland became a founding member of the Atlantic 
Coast Conference in 1952, but left to join the Big Ten Conference July 
1, 2014. As of April 2015, Maryland's athletic teams have been awarded 
42 national championships by the NCAA, USILA, AIAW, and NCA.[119] In 2008 
and 2010, The Princeton Review named the University of Maryland's athletic 
facilities the best in the nation.[120][121] The Terrapins nickname (often 
shortened to "Terps") was coined by former university president, football 
coach, and athletic director H. C. "Curly" Byrd in 1932.[122] The mascot 
is a diamondback terrapin named Testudo, which is Latin for "tortoise."[123] 
Since the early 20th century, the school athletic colors have been some 
combination of those on the Maryland state flag: red, white, black, and 
gold.[124] Men's basketball is one of the most popular sports at the university.[125] 
Long-time head coach Lefty Driesell began the now nationwide tradition 
of "Midnight Madness in 1971.[126] Beginning in 1989, alumnus Gary Williams 
revived the program, which was struggling in the wake of Len Bias's death 
and NCAA rules infractions. Williams led Maryland basketball to national 
prominence with two Final Four appearances, and in 2002, a national championship. 
On February 7, 2006, Gary Williams won his 349th game to surpass Driesell 
and became Maryland's all-time leader among basketball coaches. In May 
2011 Williams retired allowing for the entrance of new head coach, Mark 
Turgeon. The court at XFINITY Center at the UMD was named in honor of the 
dearly beloved coach, Gary Williams. Maryland football is also popular 
at the university.[125] The Terrapins were awarded the national championship 
by the wire services in 1953, and in 1951, by several retroactive selectors. 
Beyond the two "revenue sports," the university fields 18 other varsity 
teams. The women's basketball team rose to prominence in the 2000s (decade), 
and head coach Brenda Frese guided the Lady Terps to their first NCAA title 
in 2006.[127] Maryland men's lacrosse remains one of the sport's top programs 
since its beginnings as a squad in 1865,[128] although it last won the 
national championship in 1975. The team has won ten USILA and NCAA national 
championships since its promotion to varsity status in 1924 and is a regular 
fixture in the NCAA tournament.[129] The women's lacrosse team has the 
most national championships of any program in the nation, including most 
recently in 2014.[130] The men' soccer team has reached six Final Fours 
since 1997 under the guidance of head coach Sasho Cirovski and captured 
the College Cup in 2005 and 2008. The soccer team has developed a large, 
devoted fan base among students and the local community. The attendance 
record at Ludwig Field was set in 2008 when 6,500 spectators saw MD take 
on Wake Forest. The annual total attendance has increased dramatically 
from 12,710 in 1995 to 35,631 in 2008.[131] The women's field hockey team 
has won seven NCAA championships.[132] The Mighty Sound of Maryland marching 
band attends all home football games and provides pre-game performances.[133] 
During the basketball season, the marching band becomes the University 
of Maryland Pep Band, which provides music in the stands at men's and women's 
home games and during tournament play.[134] On July 1, 2012, the university 
cut seven varsity teams: men's cross country, men's indoor track, men's 
swimming and diving, men's tennis, women's acrobatics and tumbling, women's 
swimming and diving, and women's water polo. The men's outdoor track team 
had been scheduled to be cut, but the team raised $888,000 of a target 
amount of $940,000, sufficient to avoid elimination.[135] In 1932, Curley 
Byrd—who served as the university's football and baseball coach, athletic 
director, and president—proposed adopting the diamondback terrapin as a 
mascot. The first statue of Testudo cast in bronze was donated by the Class 
of 1933 and displayed on Baltimore Avenue in front of Ritchie Coliseum. 
However, the 300-pound sculpture was subjected to vandalism by visiting 
college athletic teams.[136] One such incident occurred in 1947 when students 
from Johns Hopkins University stole the bronze statue and moved it to their 
campus. Maryland students traveled to Baltimore to retrieve it, laying 
siege to the house where it was hidden. Over 200 city police responded 
to quell the riot.[137] In 1949, University President Byrd was awakened 
by a phone call from a University of Virginia fraternity requesting that 
Testudo be removed from their lawn. Testudo was later filled with 700 pounds 
of cement and fastened to his pedestal to prevent future removals, but 
students at rival schools continued to vandalize it. It was moved to Maryland 
Stadium in 1951. In the 1960s, Testudo was moved back to a spot in front 
of McKeldin Library.[138][139][140][141] In 1992 a duplicate statue was 
placed at Maryland Stadium, where the football team touch it for good luck 
as they pass by before games. Additional Testudo statues now sit outside 
of the Gossett Team House near the stadium; XFINITY Center, the school's 
basketball arena; the Riggs Alumni Center; and in the lobby of the Adele 
H. Stamp Student Union.[140] In 1994, the Maryland General Assembly approved 
legislation to name the diamondback terrapin (malaclemys terrapin terrapin) 
as the official state reptile and the legally codified mascot of the University 
of Maryland.[142] Beginning in the 2000s, the university promoted the slogan, 
"Fear the Turtle" as a rallying cry for school pride.[143] The most popular 
Testudo statue lies in front of the McKeldin Library. The statue's nose 
is polished by passers-by that have rubbed it for good luck. Around finals 
week, students start giving offerings to Testudo in the hope of good grades. 
At that time, one can find Testudo weighted down with anything from trash 
to TVs to couches, all of which disappears by the next morning (with the 
help of cleaning staff). Some of the most unusual offerings have included 
a door, a light pole, a car, and a lighted Christmas tree. In fall 2013, 
the Testudo statue caught fire because of an ill-advised mixture of offerings 
and a lit candle. Local news channels reported about this event and it 
trended on Twitter.[144] Notable alumni include House Minority Whip Steny 
Hoyer; Google co-founder Sergey Brin; The Muppets creator Jim Henson; The 
Wire creator David Simon, and Seinfeld co-creator Larry David. Prominent 
alumni in business include Ed Snider, Chairman of Comcast Spectacor and 
owner of the Philadelphia Flyers; Jim Walton (journalist), President and 
CEO of CNN; Kevin Plank, founder of the athletic apparel company Under 
Armour; Leonard Kevin "Len" Bias was a first team All-American college 
basketball forward; Chris Kubasik, former President of Lockheed Martin; 
Carly Fiorina, former CEO of Hewlett-Packard; Paula Kerger, President and 
CEO of the Public Broadcasting System (PBS); Telecommunications entrepreneur 
Brian Hinman, Hamad Al Sayari, Former governor of the Saudi Arabian Central 
Bank (Saudi Arabia Monetary Agency); and Hugo Santana CEO of IBM Mexico.[145][citation 
needed] Television personality Connie Chung; E! News reporter Giuliana 
Rancic graduated with a bachelor's degree from the Philip Merrill College 
of Journalism. ESPN reporters Bonnie Bernstein and Tim Kurkjian graduated 
from the Philip Merrill College of Journalism. Scott Van Pelt, also of 
ESPN, attended the Phillip Merrill College of Journalism, but finished 
a few credits short of graduation. Journalist Carl Bernstein, who won the 
Pulitzer Prize for Public Service for his coverage of the Watergate scandal, 
attended the university but did not graduate. Mark Rosenker, Former Chairman 
of the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) and now CBS NEWS Transportation 
Safety Analyst graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in radio and television. 
Kiran Chetry, co-host of CNN's American Morning, graduated with a Bachelor 
of Arts in broadcast journalism. Heidi Collins of CNN Newsroom graduated 
with a Bachelor of science. Former Maryland governor Harry R. Hughes also 
attended. Gayle King, editor-at-large for O, The Oprah Magazine, graduated 
from Maryland with a degree in psychology. Television show host Bruce DePuyt, 
host of News Talk on NewsChannel8 graduated from Phillip Merrill College 
of Journalism. Attendees within the fields of science and mathematics are: 
Nobel Laureates Raymond Davis Jr., 2002 winner in Physics; Herbert Hauptman, 
1985 winner in Chemistry, and Fields Medal winner Charles Fefferman. Other 
alumni include George Dantzig, considered the father of linear programming; 
late NASA astronaut Judith Resnik, who died in the destruction of the Space 
Shuttle Challenger during the launch of mission STS-51-L; engineer James 
S. Albus, founder of a division at the National Institute of Standards 
and Technology (NIST); and NASA Administrator Michael D. Griffin. Several 
donors have distinguished themselves for their sizable gifts to the university. 
Businessman Robert H. Smith, who graduated from the university in 1950 
with a degree in accounting, has given over $45 million to the business 
school that now bears his name, and to the Clarice Smith Performing Arts 
Center, which bears his wife's name.[146] Construction entrepreneur A. 
James Clark, who graduated with an engineering degree in 1950, has also 
donated over $45 million to the college of engineering, which also bears 
his name.[146] Another engineering donor, Jeong H. Kim, earned his PhD 
from the university in 1991 and gave $5 million for the construction of 
a state-of-the-art engineering building.[147] Philip Merrill, a media figure, 
donated $10 million to the College of Journalism.[148] Robert E. Fischell, 
physicist, inventor, and holder of more than 200 U.S. and foreign medical 
patents[149][150][151] donated $30 million to the A. James Clark School 
of Engineering,[152] establishing the Fischell Department of Bioengineering. 
In addition, the university has a number of executive trustees which are 
elected and have professional backgrounds.[153] The university's College 
