University Park is the name given to the Pennsylvania State University's 
flagship campus, and University Park, Pennsylvania is the postal address 
used by Penn State. The University Park campus is located in State College 
and adjacent College Township, Pennsylvania. The campus post office was 
designated "University Park, Pennsylvania" in 1953 by Penn State president 
Milton Eisenhower, after what was then Pennsylvania State College was upgraded 
to university status. The University Park campus sits within the State 
College Metropolitan Statistical Area (population 153,990), which encompasses 
all of Centre County, Pennsylvania. The ZCTA for ZIP code 16802 had a population 
of 12,764 at the 2010 census.[2] The school that later became Penn State 
University was founded as a degree-granting institution on February 22, 
1855, by act P.L. 46, No. 50 of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth 
of Pennsylvania as the Farmers' High School of Pennsylvania. Centre County, 
Pennsylvania, became the home of the new school when James Irvin of Bellefonte, 
Pennsylvania, donated 200 acres (0.8 km2) of land – the first of 10,101 
acres (41 km2) the school would eventually acquire. In 1862, the school's 
name was changed to the Agricultural College of Pennsylvania, and with 
the passage of the Morrill Land-Grant Acts, Pennsylvania selected the school 
in 1863 to be the state's sole land-grant college. The school's name changed 
to the Pennsylvania State College in 1874; enrollment fell to 64 undergraduates 
the following year as the school tried to balance purely agricultural studies 
with a more classic education. In 1953, the university sought a name change 
for the town called State College to reflect the new status of the school 
as a university. As the name change referendum failed to pass, the resolution 
ended with a new postal address to be called "University Park". The campus 
is served by the Penn State University Police. The campus is served by 
the Centre Area Transportation Authority through bus services and the University 
Park Airport for commercial air traffic. Media originating from University 
Park include Onward State, the world's most-read student-run news website, 
WKPS, a student run radio station, and The Daily Collegian, a student run 
newspaper. Within the campus, a student government is a set of elected 
positions by the student body to represent the students with relations 
with the university. It is divided between undergraduate and graduate students. 
Special interest groups representing minorities also exist within the campus 
also have an influence towards university policies that get enacted by 
the university. At the local level, Elizabeth Goreham is the mayor. At 
the state level, the campus representation is through the Pennsylvania 
Senate, District 34, represented by Jake Corman. Federally, the University 
Park campus is part of Pennsylvania's 5th congressional district, represented 
by Republican Glenn "G.T." Thompson, elected in 2008. The residence commons 
are common areas for each of the residence hall areas. Each one has a dining 
hall and a computer lab. At one point in time, each had a radio station. 
WEHR (East Halls Radio), which operated in Johnston Commons until 2005, 
was the last to survive. Houses a TV lounge, laundry facilities, Commons 
Desk, Residence Life/Housing Office for residents of Nittany Apartments 
and Suites. Houses a TV lounge, Commons Desk, Residence Life/Housing Office 
for residents of White Course Apartments. Houses a TV lounge, Front Desk, 
Residence Life/Housing Office for residents of Eastview Terrace. East Halls 
is the largest group of residence halls on campus, and is served by Findlay/Johnston 
Commons. It is reserved primarily for first-year student housing, and most 
residents share a double room with a roommate. The area's special living 
options are First-Year Interest in Liberal Arts and Education and Tri-Service 
ROTC. All of the buildings in the East Halls residence area are named after 
former governors of Pennsylvania.[4] All of the halls and commons within 
East Halls are connected via an underground maintenance tunnel system (entrance 
doors locked). The residence halls are: North Halls is the smallest residence 
hall complex at the University Park campus, consisting of four residence 
halls. They are known as the most comfortable on campus, with all rooms 
being carpeted and having their own bathroom. Nearly all rooms in North 
residence halls are suites for two or four students, however there are 
a few rooms for only a single resident. The two- and four-person suites 
are made up of four rooms with two bedrooms with a shared living room separating 
them, and the bathroom connected to the shared living room. Leete was the 
first hall converted to this format. North Halls special living options 
are Arts and Architecture (A&A), Business and Society House (BASH), and 
EARTH House.[5] Pollock Halls is the third-largest residence hall complex 
on campus, consisting of co-ed and female only residence halls. Most rooms 
are shared by two students. Pollock Halls houses nine special livings options: 
Be House (Be-Engaged as of August 2013), Discover House, EASI (Engineering 
and Applied Sciences), Forensic Science Interest House, HEAL (Health Education 
and Awareness in Living), HAC (Helping Across the Community), ILH (International 
Languages), LIFE (Living in a Free Environment as of August 2013), and 
WISE (Women in Science and Engineering). Pollock Halls also contains housing 
for eleven sororities.[7] South Halls offers housing for Schreyer Honors 
College students in Atherton and Simmons, and in addition offers male, 
female and co-ed residence halls.[8][9] At one point both McElwain Hall 
and Simmons Hall both contained a dining complex, but as of May 2011 their 
dining areas were eliminated to increase residential room space.[10] South 
Halls also contains housing for sororities. On a Residence Life basis, 
McElwain has been moved to the Pollock Residential Life area. These two 
buildings are connected to each other: These two buildings are connected 
to each other: These two buildings are connected to each other: These two 
buildings are connected to each other: *A Wet Core restroom concept eliminates 
the need to have "gender specific" restrooms in that there is a common 
sink space that everyone shares with every toilet/shower in a separate 
room behind a locked door. The wet core concept eliminates the traditional 
restroom design and allows for more privacy for any student without having 
to worry about gender obstacles. Nittany Apartments and Suites provide 
the luxury of apartment and suite living while allowing students to still 
live on campus. Nittany Apartments houses same-sex students in either two-bedroom 
or four-bedroom apartments, complete with bathroom, living room, and kitchen. 
Nittany Suites—made up exclusively of Nittany Hall—houses single upperclass 
students in two-bedroom suites. Four people live in each suite. These living 
areas are available to upperclass students.[11] Eastview Terrace is a residence 
location specifically for sophomores, juniors, and seniors. It houses 806 
undergraduates, providing a private bedroom and bath for each student.[12] 
Its location, east of South Halls, is perfect for an atmosphere that feels 
as though it off campus while remaining on campus. Additional charges do 
apply to Eastview Terrace rooms. West Halls offers male, female, and co-ed 
housing in single, regular double, small double, and triple rooms. West 
Halls also includes the oldest residence halls on campus that are still 
in use. Several special living options are offered in West Halls, including 
EMS (Earth and Mineral Sciences), IST Interest House, (LGBT) Ally House, 
and E-House (Engineering House).[13] This living area has previously only 
been available to full-time graduate students. As of Fall 2008 the area 
is open to undergraduates. The area provides housing for single graduate 
students, as well as graduate students in relationships and with families. 
The area provides one-, two-, and three-bedroom apartments, as well as 
townhouses.[15] Beaver Stadium Endzone Club & Upper Concourse Expansion, 
Summer 2001 Hetzel Union Building Rec Hall in Winter The Nittany Lion Shrine 
