The University of Pittsburgh (commonly referred to as Pitt[8]) is a state-related 
research university located in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. In 1787 after 
the American Revolutionary War, it was founded on the edge of the American 
frontier as the Pittsburgh Academy. It developed and was renamed as Western 
University of Pennsylvania by a change to its charter in 1819. After surviving 
two devastating fires and various relocations within the area, the school 
moved to its current location in the Oakland neighborhood of the city; 
it was renamed as the University of Pittsburgh in 1908. For most of its 
history, Pitt was a private institution, until 1966 when it became part 
of the Commonwealth System of Higher Education. The university is composed 
of 17 undergraduate and graduate schools and colleges located at its urban 
Pittsburgh campus, home to the university's central administration and 
28,766 undergraduate, graduate, and professional students. The university 
also includes four undergraduate schools located at campuses within Western 
Pennsylvania: Bradford, Greensburg, Johnstown, and Titusville. The 132-acre 
Pittsburgh campus has multiple contributing historic buildings of the Schenley 
Farms Historic District, most notably its 42-story Gothic revival centerpiece, 
the Cathedral of Learning. The campus is situated adjacent to the flagship 
medical facilities of its closely affiliated University of Pittsburgh Medical 
Center (UPMC), as well as the Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh, Schenley 
Park, and Carnegie Mellon University. The university has an annual operating 
budget of approximately $2 billion, which includes nearly $900 million 
in research and development expenditures. A member of the Association of 
American Universities, Pitt is the sixth-largest recipient of federally 
sponsored research funding among U.S. universities in 2013, and it is a 
major recipient of research funding from the National Institutes of Health.[9][10] 
It is the second-largest non-government employer in the Pittsburgh region 
behind UPMC. Pitt is ranked among the top public universities in the United 
States in both domestic[11][12] and international rankings,[13][14][15][16] 
and has been listed as a "best value" in higher education by several publications.[17][18] 
Pitt students have access to various arts programs throughout the campus 
and city, and can participate in over 400 student clubs and organizations. 
Pitt's varsity athletic teams, collectively known as the Pittsburgh Panthers, 
compete in Division I of the NCAA, primarily as members of the Atlantic 
Coast Conference. Founded by Hugh Henry Brackenridge as Pittsburgh Academy 
in 1787, the University of Pittsburgh is one of the few universities and 
colleges established in the 18th century in the United States. It is the 
oldest continuously chartered institution of learning in the U.S. west 
of the Allegheny Mountains.[19] The school began as a preparatory school, 
presumably in a log cabin, possibly as early as 1770[20] in Western Pennsylvania, 
then a frontier.[21] Brackenridge obtained a charter for the school from 
the state legislature of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on February 28, 
1787, just ten weeks before the opening of the Constitutional Convention 
in Philadelphia.[22][23] A brick building was erected in 1790 on the south 
side of Third Street and Cherry Alley for the Pittsburgh Academy.[24][25][26] 
The small two-story brick building, with a gable facing the alley, contained 
three rooms: one below and two above.[27] Within a short period, more advanced 
education in the area was needed, so in 1819 the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 
amended the school's 1787 charter to confer university status. The school 
took the name the Western University of Pennsylvania, or WUP, and was intended 
to be the western sister institution to the University of Pennsylvania 
in Philadelphia.[28][29] By 1830, WUP had moved into a new three-story, 
freestone-fronted building, with Ionic columns and a cupola, near its original 
buildings fronting the south side of Third Street, between Smithfield Street 
and Cherry Alley in downtown Pittsburgh. By the 1830s, the university faced 
severe financial pressure to abandon its traditional liberal education 
in favor of the state legislature's desire for it to provide more vocational 
training. The decision to remain committed to liberal education nearly 
killed the university, but it persevered despite its abandonment by the 
city and state.[30] It was also during this era that the founder of Mellon 
Bank, Thomas Mellon (Class of 1837), graduated and later taught at WUP.[24][25][26] 
The university's buildings, along with most of its records and files, were 
destroyed in the Great Fire of 1845 that wiped out 20 square blocks of 
Pittsburgh. Classes were temporarily held in Trinity Church until a new 
building was constructed on Duquesne Way (on what was the site of the former 
Horne's department store). Only four years later, in 1849, this building 
also was destroyed by fire. Due to the catastrophic nature of these fires, 
operations were suspended for a few years to allow the university time 
to regroup and rebuild. By 1854, WUP had erected a new building on the 
corner of Ross and Diamond (now Forbes Avenue) streets (site of the present 
day City-County building) and classes resumed in 1855. It is during this 
era, in 1867, that Samuel Pierpont Langley, astronomer, inventor, aviation 
pioneer and future Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, was chosen 
as director of the Allegheny Observatory that was donated to WUP in 1865. 
Langley was professor of astronomy and physics and remained at WUP until 
1891, when he was succeeded by another prominent astronomer, James Keeler. 
Growing quickly during this period, WUP outgrew its downtown facilities 
and the university moved its campus to Allegheny City (present-day North 
Side).[24][25][26] The university eventually found itself on a 10-acre 
(4.0 ha) site on the North Side's Observatory Hill at the location of its 
Allegheny Observatory. There, it constructed two new buildings, Science 
Hall and Main Hall, that were occupied by 1889 and 1890 respectively. During 
this era, the first collegiate football team was formed at Pitt in 1889. 
In 1892, the Western Pennsylvania Medical College was amalgamated into 
the university. By 1893, the university had graduated its first African-American, 
William Dammond.[31] In 1895 WUP established its School of Law, and Andrew 
Carnegie and George Westinghouse were elected to the Board of Trustees, 
where they joined Andrew Mellon who had been elected in 1894. The Pittsburgh 
College of Pharmacy and Pittsburgh Dental School also joined the university 
in 1896. In 1898, the first women, sisters Margaret and Stella Stein, graduated 
from the university.[32] During this period, University engineering professor 
Reginald Fessenden was conducting pioneering work in radio broadcasting. 
By 1904, playing at Exposition Park, the university had its first undefeated 
football team.[24][25][26][33] Citing a need to avoid confusion, distinguish 
itself from the University of Pennsylvania, and return to its roots by 
identifying itself with the city, the Western University of Pennsylvania, 
by act of the state legislature, was renamed the University of Pittsburgh 
in the summer of 1908. During this time, the university had also outgrown 
its accommodations on what is now the North Side of Pittsburgh and its 
departments had been scattered throughout the city for years. To consolidate 
all of its components on one campus, WUP bought 43 acres (170,000 m2) of 
land in December 1907 in what is now the Oakland neighborhood of Pittsburgh 
and began relocating departments there by 1909.[34] The initial campus 
plan for the new location centered on the winning submission from a national 
architectural contest that incorporated a Greek Acropolis design by Henry 
Hornbostel for 30 buildings.[35] However, due to financial and other constraints, 
only four of the buildings were constructed in this style, of which only 
Thaw Hall remains today. In the fall of 1909, the university became the 
first college to adopt the panther as its mascot.[36] It was also during 
this period that the university, led by Chancellor Samuel McCormick, again 
held off pressures to abandon the school's commitment to liberal education 
in favor of more technical-based training. During his administration, McCormick 
also led the university into a new level of national recognition, expansion, 
and growth, as well as beginning institutional support of athletics.[37] 
In the 1920s, new university chancellor John Gabbert Bowman declared that 
he had a vision for a centerpiece "tall building" for the university. The 
14 acres (5.7 ha) Frick Acres property in Oakland was soon purchased and 
plans for the campus shifted focus from the hillside to a neo-Gothic Revival 
plan that today comprises the Cathedral of Learning, Heinz Memorial Chapel, 
Stephen Foster Memorial, and Clapp Hall buildings. By 1925, Bowman had 
settled on a design by Charles Klauder for the "tall building": an attention-getting 
535-foot (163 m) tower whose great height, with open spaces all around, 
would suggest the "character that ought to be in an educated man." The 
building's "parallel lines going up and up...would express courage [and] 
fearlessness" and it would "unify Pittsburgh into a community conscious 
of its character." The Cathedral is "cut off" flat at the top to suggest 
that its lines, like education, have no ending. The building was financed 
by donors and by a campaign to collect dimes from local school children. 
Bowman was a persuasive leader and although the Great Depression intervened, 
the Cathedral of Learning, on which construction was begun in 1926, began 
hosting classes in 1931 and was formally dedicated in 1937. Today, it remains 
the second tallest university building in the world and contains an equally 
impressive interior highlighted by a half-acre (2,000 m²) Gothic hall Commons 
Room with 52-foot (16 m) tall arches currently surrounded by 30 Nationality 
Rooms, however seven more Nationality Rooms are in the making.[38] In the 
early 20th century, epidemics of polio began to hit the United States and 
other industrialized countries. As hospitals filled with patients in iron 
lungs, and tens of thousands were left disabled, the fear of polio grew, 
leading to the closing of many public facilities. Meanwhile, Dr. Jonas 
Salk had set up the University of Pittsburgh's Virus Research Lab in the 
basement of what is now Salk Hall. By 1951, Salk and his team had begun 
immunization experiments in monkeys using dead polio virus. Soon, however, 
Salk began to test inoculations in paralyzed polio patients and by 1953 
human trials among the general population were initiated. By the spring 
of the following year, the largest controlled field trials in medical history 
were underway, and by 1955 the vaccine developed by Salk and his researchers 
was declared effective. By 1962, Salk's vaccine had reduced the incidence 
of polio in the United States by 95 percent. The breakthroughs in immunology 
and vaccine development at Pitt by Salk and his team are considered one 
of the most significant scientific and medical achievements in history.[39][40] 
In 1966, Pitt was designated by Pennsylvania as a state-related university. 
As such, Pitt receives public funds ($154.3 million in fiscal year 2016) 
covering about 7% of its operating budget,[41] and offers reduced tuition 
to Pennsylvania residents. Pitt retains independent control, but is typically 
categorized as a public university. Upon affiliation with the state, subsidized 
tuition led to a massive influx of new students and rapid expansion of 
Pitt's size and scope. In the 1970s, Pitt's football team returned to greatness 
with a national championship season in 1976 led by Hall of Fame running 
back Tony Dorsett and continued success in the 1980s with players such 
as Hall of Fame quarterback Dan Marino. In the 1980s, significant medical 
research in the field of organ transplantation was conducted by Thomas 
Starzl, establishing Pitt as the world leader in the field of organ transplantation. 
In 1991, chancellor Wesley Posvar retired after 24 years in office. His 
administration is best known for elimination of the university's debt from 
its 1960s financial crisis and for increasing the school's prestige and 
endowment. Under Posvar, Pitt's operating budget grew sevenfold to $630 million 
and its endowment tripled to $257 million.[42] Mark Nordenberg was chancellor 
of the university from 1995 to 2014 and led Pitt through a period of substantial 
progress, including a $2-billion capital-raising campaign that is over 
three quarters of the way toward achieving its goal[43] and a $1-billion 
12-year facilities plan.[44] Major initiatives and events that have occurred 
during his tenure include the construction of the Petersen Events Center, 
a major expansion of on-campus housing, the growth of the University of 
Pittsburgh Medical Center and the restructuring of its relationship with 
the university, and a series of disruptive bomb threats that occurred in 
2012. Patrick D. Gallagher was named the 18th chancellor of the university 
and assumed the office on August 1, 2014.[45] The University of Pittsburgh's 
main campus comprises approximately 132 urban acres (0.53 km2) located 
in Pittsburgh's historic Oakland neighborhood. Much of the campus, including 
its centerpiece 42-story Cathedral of Learning, falls within the Oakland 
Civic Center/Schenley Farms National Historic District.[46] The campus 
has been noted for its impressive architecture,[47] and contains an eclectic 
mix of architecture that includes Greek revival, Neogothic, Italian Renaissance, 
and modern. It has been termed "a theme park of replica buildings, representing 
the architecture of the past speaking to the present."[48] The campus has 
won multiple Green Star Awards from the Professional Grounds Management 
Society.[49][50][51] The University of Pittsburgh's main campus contains 
four contiguous sections: upper (sports complexes, residence halls); mid 
(Benedum, Chevron, Allen and Thaw Halls); lower (Cathedral of Learning, 
Union, Posvar Hall); and on the west end of campus, the medical center 
complex. The campus is bordered by Darragh Street/McKee Place to the west 
and Bellefield Avenue/Dithridge Street to the east; Forbes and Fifth avenues 
traverse the campus from west to east. Although generally within walking 
distance, the university also runs a bus and shuttle service between various 
campus locations and bordering neighborhoods.[52] The main campus is within 
walking distance of many recreational, cultural, and educational institutions 
in the Oakland neighborhood. The campus is adjacent to Schenley Plaza, 
the main branch of the Carnegie Public Library, the Carnegie Museums of 
Natural History and Art and the Carnegie Music Hall, as well as portions 
of Carnegie Mellon University. Carlow University is just west of campus, 
adjacent to the university's medical center complexes. The main quad of 
Carnegie Mellon University, Central Catholic High School, and historic 
Schenley Park, site of the Phipps Conservatory & Botanical Gardens, lie 
across Junction Hollow on the east end. Two Pitt buildings are on the National 
Register of Historic Places: Allegheny Observatory (in Pittsburgh's Riverview 
Park on the Northside) and the Cathedral of Learning.[53] Twenty-one of 
Pitt's buildings (including the 5 residence halls that make up Schenley 
Quadrangle, see below) are contributing properties to the Schenley Farms-Oakland 
Civic Center Historic District that has been listed on the National Register 
of Historic Places as a historic district.[46] Due to the historical nature 
of various sites around Pitt's buildings, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 
has placed historical markers outside the Allegheny Observatory,[54] Posvar 
Hall,[55][56] Salk Hall,[57] Stephen Foster Memorial,[58] and the William 
Pitt Union.[59] In addition, a Pennsylvania Historical Marker has been 
placed on campus near the Cathedral of Learning to mark the significance 
of the University of Pittsburgh itself.[60] Another state historical marker 
has been placed to highlight the significance of Pitt's involvement in 
the archaeological excavation at the Meadowcroft Rockshelter in Avella, 
Pennsylvania.[61] In addition, the Pittsburgh History and Landmarks Foundation 
has designated the following Pitt buildings as Pittsburgh Historic Landmarks: 
Allegheny Observatory, Allen Hall, Alumni Hall, Bellefield Hall, Chancellor's 
Residence, Cathedral of Learning, the Cathedral of Learning interior rooms, 
Gardner Steel Conference Center, Heinz Memorial Chapel, Thaw Hall, Salk 
Hall, Schenley Quadrangle residence halls, Stephen Foster Memorial, the 
University Child Development Center, and the William Pitt Union.[62][63] 
Other Pitt buildings not designated individually as landmarks, but listed 
among the 16 Pitt-owned contributing properties to the Schenley Farms Historic 
District, include Clapp Hall, O'Hara Student Center, Ruskin Hall, Thackeray 
Hall, Frick Fine Arts Building, Music Building, and the University Club.[64] 
Historic structures within, adjacent to, or near Pitt's campus, but not 
belonging to the university, include the Carnegie Museum buildings, Frick 
School, Forbes Field wall remnant, Magee Estate iron fence, the Schenley 
Fountain, Mellon Institute, Phipps Conservatory & Botanical Gardens, the 
Pittsburgh Athletic Association, St. Paul's Cathedral, St. Nicholas Greek 
Orthodox Church, Schenley High School, Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall 
- where scenes of The Silence of the Lambs were filmed in 1990, and the 
Stephen Foster sculpture. Many of these buildings and their facilities 
are integrated into the events and activities of the university.[65][66][67] 
The majority of Pitt-owned facilities are clustered in the Oakland neighborhood 
of Pittsburgh which includes the Schenley Farms Historic District, however 
a few prominent facilities are scattered elsewhere throughout the city, 
including the adjacent Shadyside neighborhood. Pitt also maintains regional 
Pennsylvania campuses in Bradford, Greensburg, Johnstown, and Titusville, 
as well as a Computer Center in RIDC Park in Blawnox, the Plum Boro Science 
Center in Plum, the University of Pittsburgh Applied Research Center (U-PARC) 
in Harmarville, and the Pymatuning Laboratory of Ecology in Linesville.[68] 
The university also has a major archeological research site, the Allen 
L. Cook Spring Creek Preserve, in Spring Creek, Wyoming.[69][70] Athletic 
facilities of the University of Pittsburgh Panthers that are located in 
Oakland in the upper campus and include the Charles L Cost Sports Center, 
Fitzgerald Field House, the Petersen Events Center, Trees Hall and Trees 
Field. An approximately $30 million upgrade of on-campus sports facilities, 
starting with the Petersen Sports Complex, includes new soccer, baseball, 
softball facilities, and helps clear a space for the future construction 
of a new track and field and band complex.[71] Athletic facilities in Pittsburgh 
that are located outside of the Oakland neighborhood include Heinz Field 
and the UPMC Sports Performance Complex.[72] Major on-campus residence 
halls include the Litchfield Towers, Schenley Quadrangle, Nordenberg Hall, 
Bouquet Gardens and Ruskin Hall located on the lower campus, Lothrop Hall 
and Forbes Hall on the medical campus, and Pennsylvania, Panther, and Sutherland 
halls located on the upper campus.[73] The University of Pittsburgh Medical 
Center (UPMC), which is consistently ranked in U.S. News & World Report's 
"Honor Roll" of America's top hospitals,[74] consists of the following 
hospitals and facilities in the Oakland area, many of which have shared 
use with various university departments: UPMC Presbyterian Hospital, UPMC 
Montefiore Hospital, Magee-Women's Hospital of UPMC, Western Psychiatric 
Institute and Clinic in Thomas Detre Hall, Eye and Ear Institute, Forbes 
Tower (home to the School of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences), Iroquois 
Building, Kaufman Medical Building, Medical Arts Building, 230 McKee Place, 
and UPMC University Center. UPMC academic hospitals and facilities that 
are scattered elsewhere throughout the city include the Children's Hospital 
of Pittsburgh of UPMC campus in the Lawrencevville neighborhood, the UPMC 
Sports Performance Complex on the South Side, and UPMC Shadyside and the 
University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute in the Hillman Cancer Center 
both located in the Shadyside neighborhood adjacent to Oakland.[75] Regional 
campuses offer master's, bachelor's, and associate degrees at four locations 
in Western Pennsylvania. They also allow students to take preliminary courses 
and relocate to other regional campuses or the Oakland campus to complete 
their degrees. They offer several degrees and certificates: The University 
of Pittsburgh has been noted for both its role in community outreach and 
its impact on the economy of the city and the Western Pennsylvania region. 
In 2009, Pitt was ranked second overall, and the top public university 
in the nation, as a "Best Neighbor" for positive impact on its urban community, 
including both commercial and residential activities such as revitalization, 
cultural renewal, economics, and community service and development according 
to the "Saviors of Our Cities" ranking.[76] Pitt was also listed as a "best 
neighbor" in the previous ranking released in 2006.[77] These rankings 
reflect the statistics that each year Pitt spends more than $1.7 billion 
in the community and supports nearly 33,800 jobs in Allegheny County. The 
university is the Pittsburgh region's second largest non-government employer 
behind its affiliated University of Pittsburgh Medical Center (UPMC).[78] 
Pitt's research program alone imports more than $822 million into the region 
each year (more than $3.60 for each $1 of state appropriations), and supports 
some 23,100 local jobs.[79][80][81] Pitt students also spend more than 
$213 million on goods, services, and rental payments within the local economy.[82] 
Pitt ranked sixth in the number of startups spawned by technologies developed 
by its researchers according to Association of University Technology Managers.[83] 
Pitt and its medical school are the academic partners of the closely affiliated 
the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. With over 55,000 employees 
and $10 billion in annual revenue, UPMC is the largest non-government employer 
in Pennsylvania.[84] Through the Pitt Volunteer Pool, faculty and staff 
members donate more than 10,000 hours annually to community service projects 
for agencies such as the Salvation Army, Pittsburgh AIDS Task Force, and 
Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank. Pitt also is a leading producer 
of Peace Corps volunteers.[82][85] According to the Peace Corps' 2008 ranking 
of colleges and universities, only 14 schools in the nation produced more 
Peace Corp volunteers.[86] Pitt's graduate school also ranked 10th for 
most alumni Peace Corps volunteers.[87] The university was chartered by 
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1787 and it operated as a fully private 
institution until an alteration to its charter in 1966 at which point it 
became part of the Commonwealth System of Higher Education. This conferred 
"state-related" status to the university making it a legal instrument of 
the Commonwealth which provides an annual financial appropriation, currently 
7.7% of the university's total operating budget,[88] in exchange for the 
university offering tuition discounts to students that are residents of 
Pennsylvania. Legally, however, the university remains a private entity, 
operating under its nonprofit corporate charter, governed by its independent 
Board of Trustees, and with its assets under its own ownership and control. 
Therefore, it retains the freedom and individuality of a private institution, 
both administratively and academically, setting its own standards for admissions, 
awarding of degrees, faculty qualifications, teaching, and staff hiring.[19] 
The University's Board of Trustees maintains ultimate legal authority, 
governance, and responsibility for the university but specifically reserves 
authority over selecting the university's Chancellor; approval of major 
policies, particularly those related to the fiduciary responsibilities 
of the board; and the definition of the university's mission and goals. 
It is made up of 36 voting members: Chancellor, 17 Term Trustees elected 
by the board, 6 Alumni Trustees elected by the board on nomination from 
the Alumni Association Board of Directors, and 12 Commonwealth trustees. 
The Governor of Pennsylvania, the President Pro Tempore of the Pennsylvania 
Senate, and the Speaker of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives each 
appoints four of the 12 Commonwealth trustees. Additional non-voting trustees 
include 14 Special Trustees and additional Emeritus Trustees selected by 
the board. Non-voting ex-officio members include the Governor of Pennsylvania, 
the Secretary of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the Chief Executive 
of Allegheny County, and the Mayor of Pittsburgh. There are three or more 
regular meetings of the Board of Trustees per year.[89] The Board of Trustees 
selects the university's Chancellor, who doubles as the chief academic 
officer and the Chief Executive Officer of the university as well as serving 
as an ex officio voting member of the Board of Trustees. The Chancellor 
is delegated with general administrative, academic, and management authority 
over the university. Under the Chancellor are the Provost and Senior Vice 
Chancellor, the Senior Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences, the deans of 
the various schools, the presidents of the regional campuses, department 
chairs, and the directors of University centers and institutes.[89] The 
university is accredited by the Middle States Association of Colleges and 
Schools.[3] Throughout its history, Pitt has been committed to a liberal 
arts education with a well-rounded curriculum in the arts, sciences, and 
humanities.[30] Pitt has an increasing emphasis on undergraduate research 
experience and for providing real-world opportunities such as co-ops and 
internships.[90] Undergraduate degrees can be earned as Bachelor of Arts, 
Bachelor of Science, and Bachelor of Philosophy. Along with providing certificate 
programs, graduate level master's, professional, and doctoral degrees are 
also awarded. Pitt has also initiated a University-wide Outside the Classroom 
Curriculum (OCC) that includes a structured series of extracurricular programs 
and experiences designed to complement students' academic studies and help 
develop personal attributes and professional skills.[91] Students who complete 
the OCC requirements receive an OCC "transcript" and a green cord of distinction 
to wear at commencement.[92] The freshman level entry schools include the 
Dietrich School of Arts and Sciences, the College of Business Administration, 
the Swanson School of Engineering, and the School of Nursing. Pitt's history 
of commitment to international education is illustrated by its unique collection 
of 30 Nationality Rooms on the first and third floors of the Cathedral 
of Learning. As a further demonstration of this commitment, Pitt is one 
of the country's leading producers of both Fulbright scholars and Peace 
Corps volunteers[82][93] and one of fewer than 20 American universities 
to claim five or more area studies programs that have been competitively 
designated as National Resource Centers by the U.S. Department of Education.[94] 
Pitt's National Resource Centers include Asian, European, Latin American, 
Russian and East European, and Global studies,[95] as well as Pitt's International 
Business Center.[94] In addition, Pitt's Asian Studies Center has been 
awarded status as a Confucius Institute by the Chinese Ministry of Education.[96][97] 
Further, Pitt is home to one of just ten European Union Centers of Excellence 
in the U.S., funded by the European Commission.[98] The University Center 
for International Studies (UCIS) coordinates international education curricula, 
centers on topical specializations in international studies, and the centers 
for area studies, including the National Resource Centers, among existing 
faculty and departments throughout the university. It does not confer degrees, 
but awards certificates of attainment to degree candidates in the university's 
schools and also operates certificate programs in African Studies (undergraduate) 
and in Global Studies (undergraduate & graduate).[99] UCIS also operates 
the Study Abroad Office,[100] Nationality Rooms and Intercultural Exchange 
Programs.[101] Pitt's study abroad program, under the auspices of UCIS, 
helps to facilitate student study in over a hundred different countries, 
and oversees a variety of programs including the Panther Programs, which 
are course taught abroad that have been developed and are accompanied by 
faculty of the university; two-way exchange agreements with foreign institutions; 
and Pitt-recognized, third-party exchange programs.[102] The university 
also offers several study abroad scholarships, including those through 
the Nationality Rooms program.[103] In addition, following the decision 
to end a 24-year sponsorship of the Semester at Sea program due to academic, 
administrative and safety concerns,[104] Pitt has created a Multi-region 
Academic Program (PittMAP) that involves international travel, accompanied 
by university faculty, to three different continents for the comparative 
study of one of six rotating global study themes.[105][106] Further, Pitt's 
Swanson School of Engineering has also established a joint engineering 
institute and program with Sichuan University in Chengdu,[107] and Pitt's 
School of Medicine has established an exchange program for biomedical research 
students with Tsinghua University in Beijing, China.[108] The Center for 
Measuring University Performance has ranked Pitt, along with only six other 
schools, in the top tier of U.S. public research universities and in the 
6th tier (or top 25) among all universities according to its 2009 annual 
report.[11] In its 2016 rankings, U.S. News & World Report ranked Pitt 
24th in comparison to other public universities in the United States and 
tied for 66th among all national universities.[12] Princeton Review placed 
Pitt among its "Best Value Public Colleges",[18] while Kiplinger rated 
Pitt the best value in Pennsylvania and eighth best nationally for out-of-state 
students among public universities in their 2011 rankings.[17] In worldwide 
evaluations of universities, Newsweek ranked Pitt 37th in its "The Top 
100 Global Universities."[117] Pitt ranked 70th worldwide (and 37th in 
the U.S.) in the 2016 Academic Ranking of World Universities. Pitt ranked 
133rd globally in the 2015/16 QS World University Rankings. Pitt ranks 
24th of all universities in the world for the impact and performance of 
its scientific public publications according to the Performance Ranking 
of Scientific Papers for World Universities produced by the Higher Education 
Evaluation and Accreditation Council of Taiwan (HEEACT).[16] Pitt ranks 
as the 26th best higher education research institution worldwide according 
to SCImago Institutions Rankings' 2009 World Report.[118] Other world rankings 
include 29th in the world in the latest ranking by the Research Center 
for Chinese Science Evaluation at Wuhan University,[119] 37th in the world 
in the latest Webometrics rankings,[120] and 42nd in the world according 
to both the 2006 G-Factor International University Ranking[121] as well 
as the Russian-based 2009 Global University Ranking.[15] In addition to 
its academic rankings, Pitt has also been recognized for its positive campus 
atmosphere, with The Princeton Review rating Pitt as having the 8th happiest 
student body and the 11th best quality of life in the nation in 2010.[122] 
Many of university's individual schools, departments, and programs are 
highly regarded in their particular field as evidenced by the number of 
Pitt programs that were ranked in the latest National Research Council 
rankings.[123] Particularly well regarded programs include Pitt's Department 
of Philosophy, which has long been renowned in the U.S. and worldwide, 
and is especially strong in the areas of mathematical and philosophical 
logic, metaphysics, history and philosophy of science, philosophy of language, 
philosophy of mathematics, philosophy of mind and psychology, and semantics.[124][125] 
The University of Pittsburgh Schools of the Health Sciences, including 
Medicine, Dental, Nursing, ranked 5th nationally,[126] Pharmacy, Public 
Health, and Rehabilitation are also all highly ranked and regarded in their 
respective fields.[127] In addition, the University of Pittsburgh Medical 
Center, is consistently honored as one of America's top hospitals.[74] 
The university's Joseph M. Katz School of Business MBA program is ranked 
first in the U.S. in "Value for Money," 51st overall in the nation, and 
its faculty research is ranked 47th in the world by the 2007 Financial 
Times ranking.[128] The Joseph Katz Graduate School consistently ranks 
among the top ten public business schools in the U.S. according to The 
Wall Street Journal[citation needed]. Pitt's law school faculty has been 
ranked 21st in the nation based upon standard objective measures of scholarly 
impact.[129] Overall Pitt's Law School is ranked 63rd by The Law School 
100,[130] is listed among the nation's top law schools by The Princeton 
Review,[131] and was ranked 91st by U.S. News & World Report in 2013,[132][133] 
down from a peak ranking of 48th in 2004.[134] The University of Pittsburgh 
School of Social Work's MSW program was ranked 10th in the nation by US 
News in 2016.[135] Pitt is home to the Gertrude E. and John M. Petersen 
Institute of NanoScience and Engineering, which was ranked second in the 
nation in 2006 for microscale and nanoscale research by the leading global 
trade publication, Small Times. Pitt also has a recognized program in Radio-frequency 
identification device (RFID) technology, with its research program rated 
among the top three in the world along with MIT and the University of Cambridge 
in England.[136] Pitt students and faculty have regularly won national 
and international scholarships and fellowship awards, including four Rhodes 
Scholarships since 2006.[137][138] In 2007, in addition to the three national 
military academies, Pitt was one of only nine universities, and the only 
public university, to claim both Rhodes and Marshall Scholars. Since 1995, 
Pitt undergraduates have also won six Marshall Scholarships,[139] five 
Truman Scholarships,[140] seven Udall Scholarships, a Churchill Scholarship, 
a Gates Cambridge Scholarship,[141] 43 Goldwater Scholarships,[142] 23 
Boren Scholarships,[143] and three Mellon Humanities Fellowships.[144][145] 
Pitt is also a leading producer of Fulbright scholars, placing in the top 
20 of all universities in the number of student scholars.[146] Pitt alumni 
have won awards such as the Nobel Peace Prize, the Nobel Prize in medicine, 
the Pulitzer Prize for fiction, the Shaw Prize in medicine, the Albany 
Prize in medicine, the Fritz Medal in engineering, the Templeton Prize, 
and the Grainger Challenge Prize for sustainability.[82][147] Pitt, one 
of 62 elected members of the Association of American Universities, had 
$899 million in research and development expenditures in 2011, ranking 
10th among all universities in the United States.[148] Of that amount, 
$663 million was received from federal sources, the fifth largest amount 
of federal research sponsorship among universities and the third most among 
public universities.[148][149] Pitt ranked in the top 25 of all universities 
in the world for the impact and performance of its scientific public publications, 
including in the top ten for clinical medicine, according to the Performance 
Ranking of Scientific Papers for World Universities produced by the Higher 
Education Evaluation and Accreditation Council of Taiwan.[16] Pitt is also 
ranked 29th in the world based on Essential Science Indicators according 
to the Research Center for Chinese Science Evaluation of Wuhan University.[119] 
Pitt places much emphasis on undergraduate research and has integrated 
such research experience as a key component of its undergraduate experience.[90] 
Pitt is a major center of biomedical research; in FY 2013, it ranked sixth 
in the nation in competitive peer-reviewed NIH funding allocations,[9] 
and the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center ranked 10th among hospitals 
nationwide by USNews in 2013.[150] Pitt neighbors the campus of Carnegie 
Mellon University (CMU), and in some cases, buildings of the two universities 
are intermingled. This helps to facilitate a myriad of academic and research 
collaborations between the two schools,[151] including such projects as 
the Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center, the Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse, 
the Immune Modeling Center, the Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition, 
the University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, as well as the National 
Science Foundation-supported Pittsburgh Science of Learning Center.[152][153] 
Further, the universities also offer multiple dual and joint degree programs 
such as the Medical Scientist Training Program, the Molecular Biophysics 
and Structural Biology Graduate Program, and the Law and Business Administration 
program. Some professors hold joint professorships between the two schools, 
and students at each university may take classes at the other (with appropriate 
approvals).[154] Pitt students and faculty also have access to the CMU 
library system, as well as the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh, through 
the Oakland Library Consortium.[155] The two universities also co-host 
academic conferences, such as the 2012 Second Language Research Forum.[156] 
Undergraduate student housing comprises both traditional residence halls 
and apartment style housing. On the lower campus, the three cylindrical 
towers of the Litchfield Towers complex houses the most students on campus 
and contains the primary dining facility for the university. The Schenley 
Quadrangle, originally serving as one of city's most desirably luxury apartment 
complexes, comprises five separate residence halls: Amos, Brackenridge, 
Bruce, Holland, and McCormick. Bruce Hall houses many Honors College and 
Living and Learning Community (LLC) students, Holland Hall serves as an 
all female residence, and Amos Hall serves as the primary home of the university's 
sororities with each floor being occupied by a different Greek organization. 
Ruskin Hall is located near Clapp Hall and the biological complex. Completed 
in 2013, Nordenberg Hall is the newest residence hall houses freshmen. 
Forbes Hall, located on Forbes Avenue, houses mainly freshmen involved 
in LLCs (Living Learning Communities). Lothrop Hall, originally built as 
a nursing student residence, houses students on the medical center complex. 
Bouquet Gardens offers garden style apartments mostly to upperclassmen. 
The Forbes Craig Apartments serve as the primary residence for Honors College 
students. The upper campus houses Sutherland Hall, home of several Living 
Learning Communities, as well as Panther Hall and Pennsylvania Hall, which 
mainly house upperclassmen. Various fraternity housing is also found on 
the upper campus, as well as the Darragh Street Apartments which house 
medical students within a short walk to medical school's Scaife Hall. Many 
students, especially upperclassmen, also choose to live off campus in the 
nearby South Oakland neighborhood in both university and non-university 
owned apartments. Several traditions have become part of student life at 
Pitt over the years. One of the oldest traditions is "Lantern Night", an 
annual ceremony that serves as a formal induction for freshman women to 
university life.[157][158] The tradition of sliding or stepping on the 
former home plate of Forbes Field embedded in the floor of Posvar Hall 
is performed by students in search of some good luck.[159][160][161][162] 
Another good luck tradition involves rubbing the nose of the Millennium 
Panther outside the William Pitt Union prior to exams.[163] Originated 
by students seeking good luck on exams, this tradition has further grown 
into one that is used by the wider university community when seeking general 
good fortune, particularly prior to football games or other athletic contests, 
and was featured in a national television advertisement for the 2012 Hyundai 
Tucson automobile.[164] A romantic tradition involves the legend stating 
that if lovers kiss on the steps of Heinz Memorial Chapel, they are then 
destined to be married there.[165] Perhaps the most prestigious tradition 
involves the Omicron Delta Kappa Walk, a stone walkway between the Cathedral 
of Learning and Heinz Chapel that contains the engraved names of Pitt's 
Omicron Delta Kappa Senior of the Year award winners. The walk is the only 
one of its kind in the country.[166] Annual traditional events include 
"Fall Fest",[167] and in the spring, "Bigelow Bash". These festivals are 
held by the Pitt Program Council between the William Pitt Union and the 
Cathedral of Learning and involve a range of activities, novelties, and 
bands.[168] Related to graduation, there is Honors Convocation, where awards 
and recognition are bestowed upon students, faculty, alumni, and staff 
throughout the schools and departments of the university.[66] Also, the 
"Panther Sendoff" is a free annual reception typically held in Alumni Hall 
to congratulate each year's graduating class and wish them well.[169] A 
free event open to the public, the Nationality Rooms Open House occurs 
on a Sunday in early December each year in the Cathedral of Learning and 
involves the presentation of the rooms decorated in traditional holiday 
styles, day-long performances of dance and song by various ethnic groups, 
and food and crafts from many of the nationality room's committees.[170] 
Traditions related to athletics include the "Victory Lights", where golden 
flood lights illuminate the top of the Cathedral of Learning after every 
football victory and select other athletic achievements.[171][172][173] 
The Annual Bonfire and Pep Rally which is hosted by the Pitt Program Council 
and is held prior to a select football game. Held on the lawn of the Cathedral 
of Learning, it often involves the band, cheerleaders, football team, visiting 
dignitaries, and giveaways.[171][174] Homecoming, which revolves around 
another home football game each year, includes a traditional fireworks 
and a laser-light display between the William Pitt Union and the Cathedral 
of Learning.[175] This is followed by Casino Night in the union, the football 
game, and a homecoming cruise on a Gateway Clipper Party Liner.[176][177][178] 
At football games, the "Football Tunnel" occurs where student organizations, 
carrying standards, form a tunnel for the football players to run through 
as they enter the football field from the locker room;[179] The Varsity 
Walk, a walkway between the Cathedral of Learning and Heinz Memorial Chapel, 
is carved each year the names of former Pitt athletes (each year since 
1950) who have promoted the university through their athletic (Panther 
Award) or academic (Blue-Gold Award) achievements.[180] "Greek Week" is 
a yearlong initiative for the Greek organizations on campus to raise money 
for different charitable organizations through different events. The two 
biggest events each year are the Pitt Dance Marathon and Greek Sing. Yearlong 
fundraising activities are also held to support such charitable organizations 
such as the Ronald McDonald House, Make a Wish Foundation, University of 
Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, and the Pittsburgh Food Bank.[181] "E-Week" 
is a spring celebration organized by the Engineer Student Council for a 
week-long series of activities and competitions to demonstrate engineering 
skills and foster a spirit of camaraderie. Activities include games such 
as Monopoly, Ingenuity, Jeopardy, Assassins, and include a talent show, 
relay race, mini-Olympics, and blood drive. The festivities reach climax 
with a parade on Friday, a soapbox derby on Saturday, and the "e-ball finale" 
on Saturday evening. Each year, a unique theme is chosen. Each engineering 
department competes against the others, while some smaller departments 
join forces.[182][183] Pitt Arts is a program founded by the university 
in 1997 to encourage students to explore and connect to the art and cultural 
opportunities of the City of Pittsburgh via three programs. Art Encounters 
provides trips to arts events for undergrads that include free tickets, 
transportation, a catered reception, and encounters with international 
artists and thinkers. Free Visits grants undergrad and grad students free 
admission using their Pitt IDs to the Carnegie Museum of Art, Carnegie 
Museum of Natural History, Senator John Heinz History Center, Phipps Conservatory, 
Mattress Factory, and the Andy Warhol Museum.[184][185] Various student 
theater groups convene at Pitt. University of Pittsburgh Stages is the 
production company of the Department of Theatre Arts which puts public 
student performances of classic masterpieces, contemporary productions, 
and student-directed labs. It also runs the Shakespeare-in-the-Schools 
which tours classic theater for K-12 students throughout the Pittsburgh 
area.[186] Friday Nite Improvs, Pittsburgh's longest-running theatre show, 
was started in 1989 by graduate theatre students. It takes place weekly 
inside the Cathedral of Learning's studio theatre.[187] The Redeye Theatre 
Project is a festival of one-act plays cast, written, and rehearsed in 
24 hours.[188] Additionally, Pitt Musical Theater Club provides undergraduates 
the opportunity to perform in student directed variety shows and musicals. 
The club was founded in 2009.[189] The Pitt Men's Glee Club, founded in 
1890, is the oldest extracurricular club on campus.[190] The club includes 
both undergraduate and graduate students from throughout the university. 
Traditionally, the Glee Club has sung for a variety of campus-wide and 
community functions, including graduations, receptions, alumni gatherings, 
sporting events, and chancellor's events. The Glee Club has also participated 
in national Collegiate Men's Choir festivals and international tours and 
music festivals in both the United States and Europe.[190] Heinz Chapel 
Choir is an accomplished and internationally known[191] a cappella choir 
consisting entirely of Pitt students that has been performing for over 
70 years.[192] The University of Pittsburgh Women's Choral Ensemble, founded 
in 2011, is open to all women of the university including undergraduates, 
graduate students, and staff. The ensemble leads the traditional lamplighter 
processional each fall and performs repertory ranging from traditional 
sacred and secular classics to international folk songs, popular music, 
and show tunes.[193] Pitt Pendulums, founded in 1996, is a co-ed a cappella 
group, the oldest a cappella group on campus. Other a cappella groups on 
campus include C Flat Run, a co-ed group, Pittch Please, an all-male group, 
Pitches and Tones, a co-ed group, The Songburghs, a co-ed group, and Sounds 
Like Treble, an all-female group, among others. All groups on campus regularly 
perform in various on and off-campus functions and are regular competitors 
in the ICCA's, the International Championship of Collegiate A Cappella. 
Pittch Please recently achieved the best result of a Pitt group in the 
ICCA's, taking first place at the Great Lakes Quarterfinals in 2015.[194] 
Carpathian Ensemble, founded within the Department of music in 1786, the 
ensemble performs Gypsy, Klezmer, Armenian, Moldavian, Ukrainian, and Macedonian 
music.[195] The University Gamelan, established in 1995, is the largest 
Sundanese gamelan program in the U.S. and has sponsored an artist-in-residency 
program each year since 1998.[196] University of Pittsburgh Orchestra performs 
several concerts and consists of music students, students from the university 
at large, faculty, staff, and members of the metropolitan community. The 
orchestra performs not only works of the standard art music literature, 
but also new works of student composers.[197] Pitt Jazz Ensemble, founded 
in 1969 by saxophonist Dr. Davis, has performed internationally.[198] Pitt 
African Music and Dance Ensemble, founded in 1983 by a Ghanaian ethnomusicologist 
Dr. Willie O. Anku, specializes in music and dances from Africa. Under 
the direction of J. S. Kofi Gbolonyo, it presents a range of African artistic 
expressions including music, dance, drama and visual arts.[199] Pitt Band, 
founded in 1911, is the varsity marching band of the University of Pittsburgh 
and performs at various athletic and other University events.[200] There 
are over 350 student clubs and organizations at the University of Pittsburgh. 
all sizes and covering all manner of interests.[211] Some of the larger 
ones are: There are 39 fraternities and sororities on the campus. As of 
2008, the University of Pittsburgh Greek system raised $285,000 for the 
University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute. The effort was part of the Pittsburgh 
Greek system's five-year pledge to raise $500,000 for the cancer center.[181] 
They are currently participating in a three-year pledge to raise money 
for the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation. The University of Pittsburgh's athletic 
teams, referred to as the "Pittsburgh Panthers" or "Pitt Panthers," include 
19 university-sponsored varsity teams at the highest level of competitive 
collegiate athletics in the United States: the National Collegiate Athletic 
Association (NCAA) Division I (NCAA Division 1 Football Bowl Subdivision 
(FBS) for american football).[230] Varsity men's sports sponsored by the 
university are baseball, basketball, cross country, football, soccer, swimming 
and diving, indoor track and field, outdoor track and field, and wrestling; 
while sponsored women's varsity sports include basketball, cross country, 
gymnastics, soccer, softball, swimming and diving, tennis, indoor track 
and field, outdoor track and field, and volleyball.[231] All varsity sports 
teams compete as members of the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) since the 
2013-14 season, with the exception of the gymnastics team competing in 
the East Atlantic Gymnastics League (EAGL).[232] The university also maintains 
membership in the Eastern College Athletic Conference (ECAC).[233] Scholastically, 
during 2012 calendar year, out of approximately 450 Pitt varsity student 
athletes, 350 had term grade point averages exceeding 3.0, including 16 
that had a perfect average of 4.0, and 174 were named Big East Conference 
Academic All-Stars or placed on the all-academic Big East football team.[234] 
There are also approximately 28 additional athletic teams that compete 
at the non-varsity club sports level.[235] Pitt's highest-profile athletic 
programs, American football and men's basketball, are consistently competitive. 
Pitt has been regularly ranked as having one of the best combinations of 
football and basketball programs by multiple sports media outlets,[236][237] 
including CBS Sports,[238] ESPN,[239] and Sports Illustrated.[240] In the 
fall of 1909, the University of Pittsburgh was the first college or university 
to adopt the panther (Puma concolor) as its mascot.[36] Popular as photo 
sites, there are ten representations of Panthers in and about Pitt's campus, 
and ten more painted fiberglass panthers placed around the campus by the 
Pitt Student Government. These fiberglass panther structures are given 
to a campus group for a year and painted by the group to reflect their 
interests.[241] The oldest representations are four panthers that guard 
each corner of the Panther Hollow bridge.[242] Other Oakland locations 
include both inside and in front of the William Pitt Union,[243][244] outside 
the Petersen Events Center,[245] "Pitt the Panther" on the carousel in 
Schenley Plaza,[246] the Panther head fountain on the front of the Cathedral 
of Learning, and the Pitt Panther statue outside Heinz Field on Pittsburgh's 
North Side.[247] Traditionally the most popular sport at the University 
of Pittsburgh, football has been played at the highest levels at the university 
since 1890. During the more than 100 years of competitive football at Pitt, 
the university has helped pioneer the sport by, among other things, instituting 
the use of numbers on jerseys[248] and desegregating the Sugar Bowl. Some 
of college football's all-time greatest coaches and players have plied 
their trade at Pitt, including Pop Warner, Jock Sutherland, Marshall Goldberg, 
Joe Schmidt, Mike Ditka, Tony Dorsett, Hugh Green, Mark May, Dan Marino, 
Bill Fralic, Curtis Martin, Darrelle Revis, Russ Grimm, LeSean McCoy and 
Larry Fitzgerald. Among the top schools in terms of all-time wins, Pitt 
teams have claimed nine National Championships[249] and boast 88 players 
that have been chosen as first-team All-Americans.[250] Pitt first sponsored 
varsity men's basketball in 1905 and became an early national power after 
winning two Helms Foundation National Championships in 1927–28 and 1929–30. 
Those teams, coached by the innovative and legendary Naismith Hall of Fame 
inductee "Doc" Carlson, were led by National Player of the Year and Hall 
of Famer Charlie Hyatt. Following a Final Four appearance in 1941, Pitt 
appeared in a handful of NCAA tournaments throughout the 1950s, 1960s, 
and 1970s, including an Elite Eight appearance in 1974 led by All-American 
Billy Knight. Pitt joined the Big East Conference in 1982, and by the end 
of the decade had secured a pair of Big East regular season championships 
led by All-Americans Charles Smith and Jerome Lane. In the 2000s (decade), 
led by coach Jamie Dixon, an era of consistent national and conference 
competitiveness has been achieved, including reaching the number one ranking 
in various national polls. Since 2002, Pitt has appeared in eleven NCAA 
tournaments advancing to five Sweet Sixteens and an Elite Eight. During 
this time, prior to joining the Atlantic Coast Conference in 2013, Pitt 
and has won three Big East regular season championships, two Big East Tournament 
Championships, and has advanced to six Big East Tournament Championship 
games.[251] The Pittsburgh Panthers women's varsity basketball program 
started during the 1914–1915 school year and lasted until 1927 before going 
on hiatus until 1970. Pitt's women's team has posted several NCAA, NWIT, 
and EAIAW tournament appearances. Led head coach Agnus Berenato, Pitt has 
played in post-season tournaments each of the last five seasons, including 
three NCAA Tournaments appearances where it advanced to the Sweet Sixteen 
in 2008 and 2009.[252] Pitt has a long history of success in other intercollegiate 
athletic events. In Track and Field, Pitt has produced several Olympic 
and NCAA champions such as 800 m Olympic gold medalist John Woodruff, two-time 
110 m hurdle Olympic gold medalist Roger Kingdom, and seven-time NCAA champion 
and 2005 World Champion triple jumper Trecia-Kaye Smith.[253] The wrestling 
program has a rich history and is among the leaders in producing individual 
national champions with 16.[254] Pitt's women's volleyball team, one of 
the winningest program in the nation,[255] won 11 conference championships 
while a member of the Big East, and appeared in 11 NCAA tournaments since 
the program began in 1974.[256] Pitt's swimming and diving teams have produced 
several Olympians and won 19 men's and nine women's Big East Championships 
while a member of that conference. Pitt women's gymnastics is a regular 
qualifier for the NCAA Northeast Regional Championship.[257] Baseball, 
Pitt's oldest varsity sport, has produced several major league players 
and has reached the national 25 repeatedly, including in 2013.[258] Other 
varsity sports have also competed at national and conference championships 
and include cross country, soccer, softball, and tennis.[231][259] The 
University of Pittsburgh Varsity Marching Band was founded in 1911 and 
performs at athletic and other events. The Pitt cheerleading squad has 
won multiple cheerleading national championships, including three straight 
from 1992 to 1994. The Pitt dance team also has been competitive in national 
competitions.[260][261] University faculty have been pioneers in such fields 
as astronomy (John Brashear), aviation (Samuel Pierpont Langley), virology 
(Jonas Salk), and psychology (Benjamin Spock), in addition to being given 
popular titles such as the Father of Radio Broadcasting (Reginald Fessenden), 
the Father of Project Management (David I. Cleland), the Father of CPR 
(Peter Safar), and the Father of Organ Transplantation (Thomas Starzl). 
In addition to faculty, there have been 31 university heads for the University 
of Pittsburgh. Beginning in the institution's academy days, the head of 
the school was referred to as Principal, a title that was retained until 
1872 when it was changed to Chancellor by an alteration to the university's 
charter. This title of Chancellor has lasted except for a brief change 
during Wesley Posvar's administration when it was transiently switched 
to President.[262] Three Pitt alumni have been awarded the Nobel Prize: 
Paul Lauterbur '62 for his work in magnetic resonance imaging,[263] Philip 
Hench '20 for discovery of the hormone cortisone,[264] and Wangari Maathai 
'66 for founding the Green Belt Movement.[265] Other alumni have also been 
pioneers in their respective fields, including John Wistar Simpson '41, 
a pioneer in nuclear energy,[266] and Vladimir Zworykin '26, who has been 
regarded as the "father of television".[267] National Medal of Science 
winners include Bert W. O'Malley '59 & '63, a pioneer in steroid hormones,[268] 
and Herbert Boyer '63, Genentech founder and biotech pioneer;[269] while 
Leonard Baker '52[270] and Michael Chabon '84[271] have won the Pulitzer 
Prize. Pitt alumni who have excelled in professional sports include Pro 
Football Hall of Fame inductees Dan Marino '83,[272] Mike Ditka '61,[273] 
and Tony Dorsett '77.[274] Basketball Hall of Fame inductees include pioneering 
coach Clifford Carlson '18 & '20[275] while others, such as John Woodruff 
'39 and Roger Kingdom '02, have won Olympic gold.[276] Coordinates: 40°26′40″N 
