The University of Wisconsin–Stevens Point (also known as UW–Stevens Point 
or UWSP) is a public university in Stevens Point, Wisconsin, United States. 
It is part of the University of Wisconsin System. It grants associate, 
baccalaureate and master's degrees, as well as doctoral degrees in audiology. 
After securing land and funding from the City of Stevens Point and Portage 
County and winning the right to host the new normal school, Stevens Point 
Normal School opened on September 17, 1894 with 201 students.[2] In addition 
to teacher preparation, "domestic science" (home economics) and conservation 
education were offered; the latter formed the basis for the College of 
Natural Resources, nationally recognized[citation needed] for undergraduate 
and graduate training in natural resources. In 1927, Stevens Point Normal 
School became Central State Teachers College and began offering four-year 
teaching degrees. When post-World War II enrollment became less centered 
on teacher training and more focused on liberal arts education, the Wisconsin 
State Legislature intervened, changing the school's name to Wisconsin State 
College-Stevens Point with the authority to grant bachelor's degrees in 
liberal arts. Ever larger numbers of students in the 1950s and 1960s led 
to construction on campus throughout the 1960s and early 1970s. It was 
during this period, in 1964, that the college was elevated to university 
status as Wisconsin State University-Stevens Point and began offering graduate 
degrees. Seven years later, the Wisconsin State Universities merged into 
the University of Wisconsin system, and the school adopted its current 
name. UW-Stevens Point has more than 77,000 alumni. More than half of these 
alumni live in Wisconsin. In 1968, UW-Stevens Point formed the Northwoods 
battalion, an ROTC unit for the United States army. Lee S. Dreyfus became 
chancellor in 1974 before becoming Wisconsin's 40th governor. Governor 
Dreyfus was inaugurated on the lawn in front of Old Main on the UW-Stevens 
Point campus in 1979. In 2007, a sustainability task force was created 
to help achieve the future goal of a carbon neutral campus. In 2009, Chancellor 
Linda Bunnell resigned after a student vote of no-confidence.[3] The vote 
in part was called because of an automobile accident she failed to report 
and allegations of drunken driving.[4] Bernie Patterson became chancellor 
in July 2010.[5] The campus hosted the Jacksonville Jaguars of the National 
Football League for their first training camp in 1995. It was part of what 
then was known as the Cheese League, a collection of teams that conducted 
training camp in Wisconsin. Since 1996, the Jaguars have conducted their 
training camp in Jacksonville. The university is in Stevens Point, Wisconsin 
a block north of State Route 66 and southwest of Interstate 39/U.S. Route 
51. It is a 406-acre (164 ha) campus with 43 buildings (one under construction), 
including a 280-acre (113 ha) nature preserve and 25-acre (10.1 ha) lake. 
The Greek community on campus consists of three sororities and four fraternities. 
All of the Greek organizations meet and collaborate as one, known as the 
Inter-Greek Council. The sororities on campus are: Delta Phi Epsilon, Gamma 
Phi Delta Sorority, and Phi Omega. The fraternities on campus are: Phi 
Sigma Phi, Sigma Tau Gamma, Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia, and Theta Xi. The Schmeeckle 
Reserve, a nature reserve, is located on campus. The University of Wisconsin–Stevens 
Point offers more than 120 undergraduate programs in 48 majors and 78 minors. 
These programs are housed within four colleges: The university has three 
off-site field stations – Central Wisconsin Environmental Station at Amherst 
Junction, Treehaven near Tomahawk and the Northern Aquaculture Demonstration 
Facility at Bayfield. The Central Wisconsin Environmental Station (CWES) 
is on 200 acres near Sunset Lake, 17 miles east of Stevens Point. Treehaven 
is between Tomahawk and Rhinelander, Wisconsin on 1,400 acres. The Northern 
Aquaculture Demonstration Facility is at 36445 State Highway 13, 1.5 miles 
west of Red Cliff on Highway 13, near Lake Superior. The university maintains 
a wide range of centers and affiliations, including the Museum of Natural 
History, Waste Education Center, Water and Environmental Analysis Lab, 
Aber Suzuki Center, Allen F. Blocher Planetarium, Arthur J. Pejsa Observatory, 
Center for Collaborative & Interactive Technologies, Center for Economic 
Education, CPS Café, Central Wisconsin Economic Research Bureau, Gesell 
Institute, Center for Athletic Scheduling, Center for the Small City and 
Community Research Center. WWSP-FM is the University of Wisconsin–Stevens 
Point's alternative radio station. Operating at 30,000 watts, WWSP broadcasts 
commercial free on 89.9FM, 365 days a year. WWSP hosts the world's largest 
trivia contest,[citation needed] which was founded in 1969 and has since 
become a tradition for the university and the community. Hundreds of teams 
with thousands of members participate in the contest every year, usually 
in April. SPTV is a student-operated television station at UW Stevens Point. 
It is broadcast on channel 98 and online on SPTV's website. SPTV's office 
and studios are in the Communication Arts Center on the UWSP campus. The 
station airs news, sports, and entertainment shows. The Pointer, the weekly 
student newspaper, is free to all tuition-paying students. The Student 
Involvement and Employment Office (SIEO) in the Dreyfus University Center 
on campus provides information to students about opportunities in student 
clubs and employment. Student athletes in 20 sports at UW-Stevens Point 
participate in the NCAA Division III. The teams are members of the Wisconsin 
Intercollegiate Athletic Conference (WIAC). The UW-Stevens Point football 
team holds the annual Spud Bowl game sponsored by local potato farms and 
brewery companies as the first home game of the season. The Pointers also 
hold the annual Pink Game, which benefits the Susan G. Komen Foundation 
of Central Wisconsin, and the Circle of Friends Foundation, which provides 
opportunities to kids with cancer. The Pointers play their home games at 
Goerke Field. The Pointers men's and women's basketball teams have combined 
for six NCAA Division III titles. The women's basketball team won the national 
title in 2002, 15 years after its first NCAA Division III title in 1987. 
The men's basketball team won back-to-back NCAA Division III titles in 
2004 and 2005,[6] and won the championship again in 2010 and 2015.[6] The 
Mens basketball team has the losngest streak in the WIAC for 9 straight 
years in the playoffs. Former Pointer Pat Bloom has coached UW-Stevens 
Point baseball since 2004. Bloom became UW-Stevens Point's all-time winningest 
baseball coach in 2009. He has led the program to four NCAA Division III 
World Series appearances. The 2007 season was the best finish in school 
history. The Pointers were 34–17 that season and finished third at the 
World Series, an improvement from a fifth-place finish in 2006. The Pointers 
made their fourth World Series appearance in 2010 followed by their most 
recent appearance in 2013. In 2009, the Pointers softball team had a 24–11 
(8–6, WIAC) record. The team won the WIAC title in 2001. In 1998, the Pointers 
won the Division III National Championship. The softball team plays its 
home games at University Field. The UWSP men's track and field teams have 
won 3 individual NAIA national titles and 16 individual NCAA Division III 
national titles. The women's teams have combined to win 13 individual NCAA 
Division III titles. The men's team has had 61 All-American performances 
at the NCAA Division III Indoor Track & Field Championships since 1985[7] 
and over 70 at the NCAA Division III Outdoor Track and Field Championships 
since 1982.[8] The women have had 24 indoor NCAA Division III All-American 
performances between 1985 and 2007[9] and 27 Outdoor All-American performances 
from 1984 to 2007.[10] The men's track team coach Rick Witt, who has been 
head coach for over 30 years, was named National Coach of the Year once, 
Regional Coach of the Year seven times, and Conference Coach of the Year 
