Up for Grabs is a 2004 comedic documentary about two men who fought over 
custody of a baseball. It was directed and produced by Michael Wranovics, 
co-produced by Michael Lindenberger and Josh Keppel, co-edited by Dave 
Ciaccio; the executive producers were Dr. Roger Petrie, Helen Woo, and 
Christopher Parry. The ball happened to be the one hit by San Francisco 
Giants slugger Barry Bonds for his record-setting 73rd home run at the 
end of the 2001 MLB season. When the ball landed in the right-field bleachers 
at what was then Pac Bell Park (San Francisco), there was a mad scramble 
for the precious ball, bodies piled up on the walkway above McCovey Cove. 
Patrick Hayashi, who stood quietly with a sheepish grin on his face as 
the scrum continued, eventually held the historic ball up for a TV camera 
to reveal that he had possession of it. MLB and Giants security grabbed 
Mr. Hayashi and escorted him down to the bowels of the ballpark and authenticated 
his baseball as the true #73. As Hayashi prepared to be the next Bay Area 
millionaire, a man named Alex Popov, owner of Smart Alec's restaurant in 
Berkeley, California, was complaining loudly that he had caught the ball 
on the fly and that Patrick had stolen the ball from him at the bottom 
of the pile. Video footage shot by KNTV news cameraman Josh Keppel did 
actually show the ball land in Popov's glove, providing the key evidence 
that led to a trial in San Francisco Superior Court. While the 88-minute 
film does tell the story from the moment the ball leaves Barry Bonds' bat 
all the way through the trial and to the dramatic auction where the ball 
was finally sold to the highest bidder, the film is more of a satire than 
a serious examination of what actually happened and who ultimately deserved 
the ball. Inspired by the mockumentary films of Christopher Guest (Waiting 
for Guffman, Best in Show, etc.), Up for Grabs focuses on the characters 
involved rather than the event itself. Up for Grabs won the Audience Award 
for Best Documentary at the 2004 Los Angeles Film Festival, plus Best Documentary 
at the Gen Art Film Festival (New York) and the Phoenix Film Festival. 
Its Rotten Tomatoes critical "Fresh" rating is 93%.[1] MLB Advanced Media 
released the DVD during the 2007 MLB season - which coincides with Barry 
Bonds' successful pursuit of Hank Aaron's lifetime home run record. Bonds 
hit his 756th career HR on August 7, 2007. The film was nominated for the 
William Shatner Golden Groundhog Award for Best Underground Movie,[2] other 
nominated films were Lexi Alexander's Green Street Hooligans, Neil Gaiman's 
and Dave McKean's MirrorMask, Rodrigo García's Nine Lives, and Opie Gets 
