The Upper West Side, sometimes abbreviated UWS,[2] is a neighborhood in 
the borough of Manhattan, New York City, that lies between Central Park 
and the Hudson River and between West 59th Street and West 110th Street. 
The Upper West Side is sometimes also considered by the real estate industry 
to include the neighborhood of Morningside Heights.[3] Like the Upper East 
Side, the Upper West Side is an affluent, primarily residential area with 
many of its residents working in commercial areas of Midtown and Lower 
Manhattan. It has the reputation of being New York City's cultural and 
intellectual hub, with Columbia University located at the north end of 
the neighborhood, and artistic workers, with Lincoln Center located at 
the south end. Conversely, the Upper East Side is traditionally perceived 
to be home to commercial and business types.[4] Upper West Side is bounded 
on the south by 59th Street, Central Park to the east, and the Hudson River 
to the west. Its northern boundary is somewhat less obvious. Although it 
has historically been cited as 110th Street,[5] which fixes the neighborhood 
alongside Central Park, it is now sometimes (primarily by the real estate 
industry) considered to be 125th Street, encompassing Morningside Heights.[6] 
The area north of West 96th Street and east of Broadway is also identified 
as Manhattan Valley. The overlapping area west of Amsterdam Avenue to Riverside 
Park was once known as the Bloomingdale District. From west to east, the 
avenues of the Upper West Side are Riverside Drive, West End Avenue (11th 
Avenue), Broadway, Amsterdam Avenue (10th Avenue), Columbus Avenue (9th 
Avenue), and Central Park West (8th Avenue). The 66-block stretch of Broadway 
forms the spine of the neighborhood and runs diagonally north/south across 
the other avenues at the south end of the neighborhood; above 78th Street 
Broadway runs north parallel to the other avenues. Broadway enters the 
neighborhood at its juncture with Central Park West at Columbus Circle 
(59th Street), crosses Columbus Avenue at Lincoln Square (65th Street), 
Amsterdam Avenue at Verdi Square (71st Street), and then merges with West 
End Avenue at Straus Park (aka Bloomingdale Square, at 107th Street). Morningside 
Heights, just west of Harlem, is the site of the Cathedral of Saint John 
the Divine, Columbia University, Barnard College, Bank Street College of 
Education, the National Council of Churches, Union Theological Seminary, 
Manhattan School of Music, Teachers College and Jewish Theological Seminary 
of America, as well as Grant's Tomb and Riverside Church. Traditionally 
the neighborhood ranged from the former village of Harsenville, centered 
on the old Bloomingdale Road (now Broadway) and 65th Street, west to the 
railroad yards along the Hudson, then north to 110th Street, where the 
ground rises to Morningside Heights. With the building of Lincoln Center, 
its name, though perhaps not the reality, was stretched south to 58th Street. 
With the arrival of the corporate headquarters and expensive condos of 
the Time Warner Center at Columbus Circle, and the Riverside South apartment 
complex built by Donald Trump, the area from 58th Street to 65th Street 
is increasingly referred to as Lincoln Square by realtors who acknowledge 
a different tone and ambiance than that typically associated with the Upper 
West Side. This is a reversion to the neighborhood's historical name. The 
long high bluff above useful sandy coves along the North River was little 
used or traversed by the Lenape people.[7] A combination of the stream 
valleys, such as that in which 96th Street runs, and wetlands to the northeast 
and east, may have protected a portion of the Upper West Side from the 
Lenape's controlled burns;[8] lack of periodic ground fires results in 
a denser understory and more fire-intolerant trees, such as American Beech. 
In the eighteenth and early nineteenth century, the Upper West Side-to-be 
contained some of colonial New York's most ambitious houses, spaced along 
Bloomingdale Road.[9] It became increasingly infilled with smaller, more 
suburban villas in the first half of the nineteenth century, and in the 
middle of the century, parts had become decidedly lower class. The name 
"Bloomingdale District" was used to refer to a part of the Upper West Side 
– the present-day Manhattan Valley neighborhood – located between 96th 
and 110th Streets and bounded on the east by Amsterdam Avenue and on the 
west by Riverside Drive, Riverside Park, and the Hudson River. Its name 
was a derivation of the description given to the area by Dutch settlers 
to New Netherland, likely from Bloemendaal, a town in the tulip region.[10] 
The Dutch Anglicized the name to "Bloomingdale" or "the Bloomingdale District", 
to the west side of Manhattan from about 23rd Street up to the Hollow Way 
(modern 125th Street). It consisted of farms and villages along a road 
(regularized in 1703) known as the Bloomingdale Road. Bloomingdale Road 
was renamed The Boulevard in 1868, as the farms and villages were divided 
into building lots and absorbed into the city.[11][12] By the 18th century 
it contained numerous farms and country residences of many of the city's 
well-off, a major parcel of which was the Apthorp Farm. The main artery 
of this area was the Bloomingdale Road, which began north of where Broadway 
and the Bowery Lane (now Fourth Avenue) join (at modern Union Square) and 
wended its way northward up to about modern 116th Street in Morningside 
Heights, where the road further north was known as the Kingsbridge Road. 
Within the confines of the modern-day Upper West Side, the road passed 
through areas known as Harsenville,[13] Strycker's Bay, and Bloomingdale 
Village. With the building of the Croton Aqueduct passing down the area 
between present day Amsterdam Avenue and Columbus Avenue in 1838–42, the 
northern reaches of the district became divided into Manhattan Valley to 
the east of the aqueduct and Bloomingdale to the west. Bloomingdale, in 
the latter half of the 19th century, was the name of a village that occupied 
the area just south of 110th street.[14] Much of the riverfront of the 
Upper West Side was a shipping, transportation, and manufacturing corridor. 
The Hudson River Railroad line right-of-way was granted in the late 1830s 
to connect New York City to Albany, and soon ran along the riverbank. One 
major non-industrial development, the creation of Central Park in the 1850s 
and '60s, caused many squatters to move their shacks into the Upper West 
Side. Parts of the neighborhood became a ragtag collection of squatters' 
housing, boarding houses, and rowdy taverns. As this development occurred, 
the old name of Bloomingdale Road was being chopped away and the name Broadway 
was progressively applied further northward to include what had been lower 
Bloomingdale Road. In 1868, the city began straightening and grading the 
section of the Bloomingdale Road from Harsenville north, and it became 
known as "Western Boulevard" or "The Boulevard". It retained that name 
until the end of the century, when the name Broadway finally supplanted 
it. Development of the neighborhood lagged even while Central Park was 
being laid out in the 1860s and '70s, then was stymied by the Panic of 
1873. Things turned around with the introduction of the Ninth Avenue elevated 
in the 1870s along Ninth Avenue (renamed Columbus Avenue in 1890), and 
with Columbia University's relocation to Morningside Heights in the 1890s, 
using lands once held by the Bloomingdale Insane Asylum.[15] Riverside 
Park was conceived in 1866 and formally approved by the state legislature 
through the efforts of city parks commissioner Andrew Haswell Green. The 
first segment of park was acquired through condemnation in 1872, and construction 
soon began following a design created by the firm of Frederick Law Olmsted, 
who also designed the adjacent, gracefully curving Riverside Drive. In 
1937, under the administration of commissioner Robert Moses, 132 acres 
(0.53 km2) of land were added to the park, primarily by creating a promenade 
that covered the tracks of the Hudson River Railroad. Moses, working with 
landscape architect Gilmore D. Clarke also added playgrounds, and distinctive 
stonework and the 79th Street Boat Basin, but also cut pedestrians off 
from direct access to most of the riverfront by building the Henry Hudson 
Parkway by the river's edge. According to Robert Caro's book on Moses, 
The Power Broker, Riverside Park was designed with most of the amenities 
located in predominantly white neighborhoods, with the neighborhoods closer 
to Harlem getting shorter shrift. Riverside Park, like Central Park, has 
undergone a revival late in the 20th century, largely through the efforts 
of The Riverside Park Fund, a citizen's group. Largely through their efforts 
and the support of the city, much of the park has been improved. The Hudson 
River Greenway along the river-edge of the park is a popular route for 
pedestrians and bicycle commuters, and offers spectacular vistas. A dramatic 
improvement is the $15.7 million "Riverwalk" extension to the park's greenway 
constructed between 83rd and 91st Streets on a promenade in the river itself, 
completed in May 2010.[16] The Upper West Side experienced a building boom 
from 1885 to 1910, thanks in large part to the 1904 opening of the city's 
first subway line, which comprised, in part, what is now a portion of the 
IRT Broadway – Seventh Avenue Line, with subway stations at 59th, 66th, 
72nd, 79th, 86th, 91st, 96th, 103rd, 110th, 116th, and 125th Streets. This 
followed upon the opening of the now demolished IRT Ninth Avenue Line – 
the city's first elevated railway – which opened in the decade following 
the American Civil War. This further stimulated residential development 
of the area. The stately tall apartment blocks on West End Avenue and the 
townhouses on the streets between Amsterdam Avenue and Riverside Drive, 
which contribute to the character of the area, were all constructed during 
the pre-depression years of the twentieth century. A revolution in building 
techniques, the low cost of land relative to lower Manhattan, the arrival 
of the subway, and the democratization of the formerly expensive elevator 
made it possible to construct large apartment buildings for the middle 
classes. The large scale and style of these buildings is one reason why 
the neighborhood has remained largely unchanged into the twenty-first century.[14] 
The neighborhood changed from the 1930s to the 1950s. In 1932, the IND 
Eighth Avenue Line opened under Central Park West.[17] In 1940, the elevated 
IRT Ninth Avenue Line over Columbus Avenue closed.[18] Immigrants from 
Eastern Europe and the Caribbean moved in during the '50s and the '60s.[19] 
The Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts opened in the 1960s.[20] In 
the 1900s, the area south of 67th Street was heavily populated by African-Americans 
and supposedly gained its nickname of "San Juan Hill" in commemoration 
of African-American soldiers who were a major part of the assault on Cuba's 
San Juan Hill in the Spanish–American War. By 1960, it was a rough neighborhood 
of tenement housing, the demolition of which was delayed to allow for exterior 
shots in the movie musical West Side Story. Thereafter, urban renewal brought 
the construction of the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts and Lincoln 
Towers apartments during 1962–1968. The Upper West Side is a significant 
Jewish neighborhood, populated with both German Jews who moved in at the 
turn of last century, and Jewish refugees escaping Hitler's Europe in the 
1930s. Today the area between 85th Street and 100th Street is home to the 
largest community of young Modern Orthodox singles outside of Israel.[21] 
However, the Upper West Side also features a substantial number of non-Orthodox 
Jews. A number of major synagogues are located in the neighborhood, including 
the oldest Jewish congregation in the United States, Shearith Israel; New 
York's second-oldest and the third-oldest Ashkenazi synagogue, B'nai Jeshurun; 
Rodeph Sholom; the Stephen Wise Free Synagogue; and numerous others. From 
the post-WWII years until the AIDS epidemic, the neighborhood, especially 
below 86th Street, had a substantial gay population. As the neighborhood 
had deteriorated, it was affordable to working class gay men, and those 
just arriving in the city and looking for their first white collar jobs. 
Its ethnically mixed gay population, mostly Hispanic and white, with a 
mixture of income levels and occupations patronized the same gay bars in 
the neighborhood, making it markedly different from most gay enclaves elsewhere 
in the city. The influx of white gay men in the Fifties and Sixties is 
often credited with accelerating the gentrification of the Upper West Side,[22] 
and by the mid and late '70s, the gay male population had become predominantly 
white. Another component that brought about the eventual gentrification 
of the neighborhood were the recent college graduates in the late '70s 
and early '80s who moved in, drawn to the neighborhood's relatively large 
apartments and cheap housing.[citation needed] In a subsequent phase of 
urban renewal, the rail yards which had formed the Upper West Side's southwest 
corner were replaced by the Riverside South residential project, which 
included a southward extension of Riverside Park. The evolution of Riverside 
South had a 40-year history, often extremely bitter, beginning in 1962 
when the New York Central Railroad, in partnership with the Amalgamated 
Lithographers Union, proposed a mixed-use development with 12,000 apartments, 
Litho City, to be built on platforms over the tracks. The subsequent bankruptcy 
of the enlarged, but short-lived Penn Central Railroad brought other proposals 
and prospective developers. The one generating the most opposition was 
Donald Trump's "Television City" concept of 1985, which would have included 
a 152-story office tower and six 75-story residential buildings. In 1991, 
a coalition of prominent civic organizations proposed a purely residential 
development of about half that size, and then reached a deal with Trump. 
As of 2008, construction is well underway, but still to be resolved is 
the future of the West Side Highway viaduct over the park area.[citation 
needed] The community's links to the events of September 11, 2001 were 
evinced in Upper West Side resident and Pulitzer Prize winner David Halberstam's 
paean to the men of Ladder Co 40/Engine Co 35, just a few blocks from his 
home, in Firehouse. Today, this area is the site for several long-established 
charitable institutions; their unbroken parcels of land have provided suitably 
scaled sites for Columbia University and the Cathedral of Saint John the 
Divine, as well as for some vanished landmarks, such as the Schwab Mansion 
on Riverside Drive, the most ambitious free-standing private house ever 
built in Manhattan.[citation needed] The name Bloomingdale is still used 
in reference to a part of the Upper West Side, essentially the location 
of old Bloomingdale Village, the area from about 96th Street up to 110th 
Street and from Riverside Park east to Amsterdam Avenue. The triangular 
block bound by Broadway, West End Avenue, 106th Street and 107th Street, 
although generally known as Straus Park (named for Isidor Straus and his 
wife Ida), was officially designated Bloomingdale Square in 1907. The neighborhood 
also includes the Bloomingdale School of Music and Bloomingdale neighborhood 
branch of the New York Public Library. Adjacent to the Bloomingdale neighborhood 
is a more diverse and less affluent subsection of the Upper West Side called 
Manhattan Valley, focused on the downslope of Columbus Avenue and Manhattan 
Avenue from about 102nd Street up to 110th Street.[citation needed] As 
of 2010[update], Manhattan Community Board 7 has a population of 209,084, 
which is down from 210,993 in 1990. Of the population, 140,850 (67.4%) 
are White non Hispanic, 31,347 (15%) of Hispanic origin, 15,834 (7.6%) 
are African American, 15,988 (7.6%) Asian or Pacific Islander, 221 (0.1%) 
American Indian or Native Alaskan, 671 (0.3%) of some other race, 4,173 
(2%) of two or more race.[1] Approximately 12.2% of the population benefits 
from public assistance as of 2012[update].[23] The land area is 1.9 square 
miles (4.9 km2).[23] Two subway lines serve the Upper West Side. The IRT 
Broadway – Seventh Avenue Line (1 2 3 trains) runs along Broadway. The 
IND Eighth Avenue Line (A B C D trains) runs along Central Park West.[24] 
There are five different bus routes — M5, M7, M10, M11, M104 buses — that 
go up and down the Upper West Side, and the M57 goes up West End Avenue 
for 15 blocks in the neighborhood. Additionally, crosstown routes include 
the M66, M72, M79, M86 SBS, M96, M106. The M20 terminates at Lincoln Center.[25] 
Community Board 7 (CB7) deals with land use and zoning matters, the City 
budget, municipal service delivery, and multiple community concerns of 
the Upper West Side.[26] CB7 covers the Upper West Side from 59th/60th 
Streets to 110th Street. NYPD Precincts 20 and 24 are in CB7's area. New 
York City's Community Boards review data collected by the 311 Customer 
Service Center. 3-1-1 (3-1-1) is a non-emergency telephone number, and 
New York City releases monthly reports on the number of requests for services 
to 311.[27] In CB7, 80% of the calls to 311 are either building complaints, 
noise complaints, city property damage/complaints, and lost and found property. 
The composition of the calls to 311 vary on a monthly basis due to weather. 
For instance, there were 79 total calls to 311 in October 2012 regarding 
damaged or dead trees in the wake of Hurricane Sandy, which reached New 
York City at the end of that month. In the next month, daily calls regarding 
trees dropped 25%, while daily calls regarding heating increased 58%. The 
largest number of calls to 311 in the most recent reporting month of November 
2012 were referenced to the Department of Housing Preservation and Development 
regarding heating. The next highest was for residential noise complaints.[27][28] 
Precinct 20[29] covers the Upper West Side from 59th Street to 86th Street. 
This precinct area also includes Neighborhood Tabulation Areas (NTAs) for 
the Upper West Side (mn12) and Lincoln Square (mn14).[30] Recent data indicates 
that crime, after declining steadily for many years, bottomed in 2011. 
Information from the NYPD indicates total crime complaints have increased 
approximately 15% in the last year.[31] Citywide crime complaints have 
increased 4%. This tabulation includes all types of crime complaints, from 
murders to petit larceny. Crime complaints increased this year in Precinct 
20 for almost all of the CompStat categories, except for misdemeanor assaults. 
There were 2,058 crime complaints year-to-date as of November 25, 2012, 
up from 1,789 crime complaints in the same time period a year ago. From 
2000 to 2010 the population in precinct 20 increased by 1,674 people, up 
1% annually.[30] In comparison, but not in exactly the same time period, 
crime complaints decreased by 2% annually from 2001 to 2011. All public 
noncharter schools are operated by the New York City Department of Education. 
The apartment buildings along Central Park West, facing the park, are some 
of the most desirable apartments in New York. The Dakota at 72nd St. has 
been home to numerous celebrities including John Lennon, Leonard Bernstein 
and Lauren Bacall. Other famous buildings on CPW include the Art Deco Century 
Apartments (Irwin Chanin, 1931), and The Majestic, also by Chanin. The 
San Remo, The Eldorado and The Beresford were all designed by Emery Roth, 
as was 41 West 96th Street (completed in 1926). His first commission, the 
Belle Époque Belleclaire, is on Broadway, while the moderne Normandie holds 
forth on Riverside at 86th Street. Along Broadway are several Beaux-Arts 
apartment houses: The Belnord (1908) – the fronting block of which was 
co-named in honor of longtime resident I.B. Singer, plus The Apthorp (1908), 
The Ansonia (1902), The Dorilton and the Manhasset . All are individually 
designated New York City landmarks. Curvilinear Riverside Drive also has 
many beautiful pre-war houses and larger buildings, including the graceful 
curving apartment buildings—The Paterno and The Colosseum (apartment building) 
by Schwartz & Gross—at 116th St and Riverside Drive. West End Avenue, a 
grand residential boulevard lined with pre-war Beaux-Arts apartment buildings 
and townhouses dating from the late-19th and early 20th centuries, is closed 
to commercial traffic. Columbus Avenue north of 87th Street was the spine 
for major post-World War II urban renewal. Broadway is lined with such 
architecturally notable apartment buildings as The Ansonia, The Apthorp, 
The Belnord, the Astor Court Building, and The Cornwall, which features 
an Art nouveau cornice.[48][49] Newly constructed 15 Central Park West 
and 535 West End Avenue are known to be some of the prestigious residential 
addresses in Manhattan. Both Broadway and Amsterdam Avenue from 67th Street 
up to 110th Street are lined with restaurants and bars, as is Columbus 
Avenue to a slightly lesser extent. The following lists a few prominent 
ones: American Broadcasting Company (ABC) is headquartered on West 66 Street 
in the Upper West Side.[53] The Upper West Side has been a setting for 
many movies and television shows because of its pre-War architecture, colorful 
community and rich cultural life. Ever since Edward R. Murrow went "Person-to-Person" 
live, the length of Central Park West in the 1950s, West Siders scarcely 
pause to gape at on-site trailers, and jump their skateboards over coaxial 
cables. At one time it seemed that one or another of the various Law & 
Order shows took up all the available parking spaces in the neighborhood. 
Woody Allen's film Hannah and Her Sisters captures that quintessential 
Upper West Side flavor of rambling high-ceilinged apartments, bursting 
at the seams with books and other cultural artifacts. In alphabetical order: 
In alphabetical order: In alphabetical order: The setting for Neil Simon's 
1965 comedy The Odd Couple is Oscar Madison's eight-room apartment on Riverside 
Drive in "the eighties." The action of Charles Busch's 1999 comedy/drama 
The Tale of the Allergist's Wife takes place in an Upper West Side apartment 
