Upstate New York is the portion of the American state of New York lying 
north of New York City. The region includes most of the state of New York, 
excluding New York City and its environs, as well as Long Island, though 
the precise boundary is debated.[1][2] Upstate New York includes the major 
cities of Buffalo, Rochester, Albany, and Syracuse.[2][3] Before the American 
Revolutionary War, Upstate was populated by Native Americans, and was home 
to the Six Nations of the Iroquois Confederacy. The region saw many battles 
between the Continental Army and the Iroquois, and several treaties drawn 
up after the war ceded much of the land to settlers of European descent. 
The development of Upstate New York was spurred by the opening of the Erie 
Canal in 1825, which greatly eased the transport of goods between the port 
of New York City and inland cities along the Great Lakes. As a result, 
Upstate became a hotbed for manufacturing, giving birth to such firms as 
General Electric, IBM, Kodak, and Xerox, and it welcomed a large influx 
of immigrants. Since the mid 20th century, American de-industrialization 
has contributed to economic and population decline[citation needed] Upstate, 
and the region is largely considered part of the Rust Belt. Unlike the 
New York metropolitan area, Upstate New York contains vast areas of rural 
land. As a result, Upstate also supports a strong agriculture industry, 
and is notable for its milk and dairy products, its fruit production (especially 
apples), and winemaking.[4] New York City is dependent on the natural resources 
of Upstate for a variety of services, including the city's water supply 
and electricity. The region is home to several popular tourist and recreational 
destinations, including Niagara Falls, the Adirondack and Catskill Mountains, 
and the Finger Lakes. There is no clear official boundary between Upstate 
New York and Downstate New York. The broadest usage of the term Upstate 
New York excludes only New York City and Long Island, which are always 
considered to be part of Downstate New York. Another usage locates the 
Upstate/Downstate boundary further north, at the point where New York City's 
suburbs segue into its exurbs, as the exurbs do not fall within the US 
Census' urban area. This boundary places most, but not all, of Westchester 
and Rockland Counties in Downstate, while putting the northwestern edge 
of Rockland County as well as the northernmost quarter of Westchester County 
(including Peekskill) in Upstate; area residents often use Interstate 84 
to delineate the boundary between upstate and downstate New York..[5][not 
in citation given (See discussion.)] Yet another definition uses the prior 
Census definition of the New York metropolitan area, which until 2010 included 
Westchester, Rockland, and Putnam Counties. This was the definition used 
by the plaintiffs in the federal redistricting case of Rodriguez v. Pataki.[6] 
Residents of Upstate New York sometimes prefer to identify with a more 
specific subregion, such as Western New York or Central New York. A number 
of businesses and institutions in the area have "Upstate" as part of their 
name.[7][8] Examples of this include the State University of New York Upstate 
Medical University in Syracuse, the Upstate New York Chapter of the Arthritis 
Foundation serving 31 of New York's 62 counties,[9] and the VA Healthcare 
Network Upstate New York, which includes all of New York State northward 
and westward from Kingston, New York in Ulster County.[10] Other organizations 
in New York with "Upstate" in their name include the Upstate Collegiate 
Athletic Association, the Upstate Correctional Facility, the Upstate New 
York Club Hockey League, the Upstate New York Synod, and the Upstate Citizens 
for Equality. The term Upstate America is also occasionally used instead 
of "Upstate New York" (see, for instance, some of the work of Albany political 
reporter Jimmy Vielkind) to emphasize the differences between upstate and 
downstate New York, sometimes in comparison to other similar states in 
the northern tier of the United States.[11][12][13] The other regions of 
New York State are culturally and economically distinct from the New York 
City area and in many ways from each other. Most of New York State is characterized 
both by agricultural and forested rural communities, and by small and medium-sized 
cities and their surrounding suburbs located along major transportation 
corridors. The state's major metropolitan areas outside of New York City 
are Buffalo, Rochester, Albany-Schenectady-Troy, and Syracuse, each of 
whose population exceeds 500,000. The different regions of New York State 
are influenced by and have affinities with other adjacent regions. Western 
New York has cultural and economic ties to the other Great Lakes states 
as well as Southern Ontario. The Capital District, the Hudson Valley, the 
Mohawk Valley and the Plattsburgh area have ties to New England. The North 
Country, the extreme northern portion of the state, also has strong cultural, 
economic, linguistic and familial ties to Quebec and Eastern Ontario. Thus, 
Plattsburgh has close ties to its neighbors in the Montreal area as well 
as Vermont. Much of New York State receives television and radio broadcasts 
from Canada and there are often other cross-border ties, both historical 
and familial. A similar relationship can be seen in Northern New England. 
Linguistically, upstate New York from Western New York east to Utica is 
part of the Inland North region of American English dialectology, a region 
which includes Midwestern cities as far west as Chicago and Milwaukee. 
The Hudson and lower Mohawk Valley has more in common dialectologically 
with western New England and New York City.[14] The boundary between the 
use of the words pop and soda to refer to soft drinks, however, falls farther 
west than the edge of the Inland North, running just to around the city 
of Rochester: Buffalo and areas west of Rochester use pop, like the rest 
of the Inland North to the west, whereas areas east of Rochester, like 
Syracuse and Binghamton, use soda, like New England and New York City. 
In Ithaca and Elmira, the border is less clear, with some people having 
grown up with pop and some with soda; however, current trends see Ithaca, 
at least, turning to mostly "soda." Foodways indigenous to regions of Upstate 
New York include: Although the potato chip was invented in Saratoga Springs, 
it has achieved such universal popularity that it is no longer identified 
with the region. Winemaking is a growing industry in the Finger Lakes as 
well as in Chautauqua County, where Welch's operates one of the oldest 
extant grape juice factories in the United States. In the center of the 
Finger Lakes region, Ithaca is known for the Bo Burger, a cheeseburger 
with a fried egg on top. Two of the most important rock festivals of the 
20th century were held in Upstate New York. In 1969 the Woodstock Festival 
was held in Bethel, New York, while in 1973 another multiday festival was 
held at the Watkins Glen International Raceway. Some literary, documentary 
and cinematic depictions of upstate present a sense of small town, simple 
lifestyles, such as It's a Wonderful Life, set in a small upstate town 
in the 1940s. The population of New York State is 19,746,227, with 11,323,961 
living in either New York City or Long Island, leaving only 8,422,266 for 
the entire rest of the state. This means Upstate NY has a population density 
far lower than that of downstate. Upstate is typified by farmland and forest, 
many large lakes, and two mountain ranges, with a few metro areas dotting 
the map here and there. Residents of English colonial ancestry are common, 
as well as German, Irish, and Italian, with most metropolitan counties 
having a similar number of residents from each group. The North Country 
is heavily French Canadian. Italian Americans are the largest ethnic group 
in Oneida County, as well as in some counties in the Hudson Valley that 
are closest to New York City. Irish Americans represent the largest ethnic 
group from the Capital District, Syracuse, Binghamton, and the rest of 
the Hudson Valley, though they also have large Italian American populations; 
Irish population is consistently above 15% in most of upstate New York 
(reaching over 20% in the upper Hudson Valley), compared to less than 8% 
in most of New York City.[15] Buffalo also contains a notably large contingent 
of residents with Polish ancestry. African Americans, while not as numerous 
as in New York City, make up at least 25% of the residents in cities such 
as Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse, and Albany. There is also a significant 
presence of the indigenous Haudenosaunee or Six Nations in the region, 
who retain several reservations: the Seneca nation and Tonawanda Band of 
Seneca Indians in Western New York, the Onondaga nation south of Syracuse, 
the Oneida nation of Oneida County and the Mohawk nation in Franklin County. 
Members of the Six Nations also live in the cities of Upstate New York. 
The headwaters of the Delaware, Susquehanna, Hudson, and Allegheny rivers 
are located in the region. The region is characterized by the major mountain 
ranges, large lakes, and extensive forests. The Allegheny Plateau extends 
into west and central New York from the south. The Catskill Mountains lie 
in the southeastern part of the state, closer to New York City. The Catskills 
and the Allegheny Plateau are both part of the Appalachian Mountains. The 
northernmost part of the state contains the Adirondack Mountains, which 
are sometimes considered part of the Appalachians but are geologically 
separate, a southern extension of the Canadian Shield. In the more mountainous 
eastern part of Upstate New York, the valleys of the Hudson River and the 
Mohawk River were historically important travel corridors and remain so 
today. Western New York in the vicinity of Buffalo is very flat, as it 
was once the bottom of a glacial lake. The only "hills" in Niagara County 
are the Niagara Escarpment, which formed the Falls. Upstate has a long 
shared border with Canadian province of Ontario divided by water; including 
the Lake Erie, Niagara River, Lake Ontario and the St. Lawrence River. 
It shares a land border with the province of Quebec in the northernmost 
part of the state. The sizes of upstate counties and towns are generally 
larger in area and smaller in population, compared with the downstate region, 
although there are exceptions. The state's smallest county in population 
(Hamilton County) and largest county in area (St. Lawrence County on the 
state's northern border) are both in Upstate New York, while the largest 
in population (Kings County) and smallest in area (New York County) are 
both part of New York City. Upstate New York is well known for its cold 
and snowy winters, particularly in comparison to the more temperate climate 
of downstate New York. The snowy reputation is especially true for the 
cities of Buffalo, Rochester, Oswego and Syracuse, and is largely due to 
lake-effect snow from Lake Ontario and Lake Erie. The villages of Old Forge 
and Saranac Lake, both in the Adirondacks, often vie on winter nights with 
places like International Falls, Minnesota and Fargo, North Dakota for 
the coldest spot in the nation.[17] Many of the features of the upstate 
landscape, such as the Finger Lakes and the drumlins that dot the region, 
are the result of glaciers during the Ice Age. Before the arrival of Europeans, 
the area was long inhabited by Iroquoian-speaking people (mainly west of 
the Hudson) and around the Great Lakes, and Algonquian-speaking people 
(mainly east of the Hudson). The conflict between the two peoples continued 
through the period of early European colonization, and the French, Dutch 
and English tended to ally with their trading partners among the indigenous 
peoples. The Haudenosaunee or Iroquois confederacy of the Five (later Six) 
Nations was a powerful force in its home territory. The Five Nations' territory 
extended from the Mohawk River Valley through the western part of the state 
and into current Pennsylvania. From this home base they also controlled 
at various times large swaths of additional territory throughout what is 
now the northeastern United States. The Guswhenta (Two Row Wampum Treaty), 
made with the Dutch government in 1613, codified relations between the 
Haudenosaunee and European colonizers, and formed the basis of subsequent 
treaties. In the mid-17th century, during the Beaver Wars, the Iroquois 
were victorious and dominated the tribes of Neutral Indians, Wenrohronon 
and the Erie Indians in Western New York. (Survivors were mostly assimilated 
into the Seneca people of the Iroquois; some are believed to have escaped 
to South Carolina, where they merged with other Indian tribes.) The region 
was important from the first days of both French and Dutch colonization 
In the seventeenth century. The New Netherland colony encompassed the Hudson 
Valley from Manhattan island north to the confluence of the Hudson and 
Mohawk rivers, where Fort Orange (later Albany) was established in 1623. 
The fort at Schenectady, New York was built in 1661. The upper Hudson Valley 
was the center of much of the colony's fur trade, which was highly lucrative, 
serving a demand for furs in Europe. North and west of New Netherland, 
the French established trading posts along the St. Lawrence River and as 
far south as the shores of Onondaga Lake. They found both trading and proselytizing 
difficult among the Haudenosaunee, as Samuel de Champlain had alienated 
the Haudenosaunee during military forays from New France. In the 1640s, 
three French Jesuit missionaries to New France —St. René Goupil, St. Isaac 
Jogues, and St. Jean de Lalande—were killed near the Mohawk village of 
Ossernenon, which was located at the confluence of the Schoharie and Mohawk 
rivers, where the modern town of Auriesville was later developed. They 
are considered to be the first three U.S. saints. England seized New Netherland 
by force in 1664, renaming it New York. The Dutch recaptured the colony 
nine years later, but ceded it to England under the Treaty of Westminster 
of 1674. In the eighteenth century, the British consolidated their hold 
on the region. William Johnson, a Scottish trader, established an estate 
in the Mohawk Valley, living among the Mohawk, learning their language, 
and forging an alliance with them. He was appointed as the British Indian 
agent to the Iroquois. The British also encouraged settlement in the Mohawk 
Valley by other Europeans, including German Palatines beginning in the 
1720s. In what became known as the Albany Congress in 1754, delegates from 
seven of the thirteen British North American colonies met at Albany to 
pursue a treaty with the powerful Mohawk. Benjamin Franklin, a Pennsylvania 
delegate, proposed a plan for uniting the seven colonies that greatly exceeded 
the scope of the congress. The delegates spent most of their time debating 
this Albany Plan of union, one of the first attempts to form a union of 
the colonies "under one government as far as might be necessary for defense 
and other general important purposes".[36] The delegates approved an amended 
version, but the colonies rejected it. To counter the French militarily, 
the British established forts along Lake Ontario and at portages between 
the Mohawk Valley and the adjacent Lake Champlain and Lake Ontario watersheds. 
The region became the area for many conflicts of the French and Indian 
War, such as the Battle of Fort Oswego (1756) and the Siege of Fort William 
Henry (which was later depicted in the work of James Fenimore Cooper), 
during the Seven Years' War. The British conquered New France by 1760 with 
the fall of Quebec. France formally ceded New France to the British in 
the Treaty of Paris of 1763. The same year, King George III issued the 
Royal Proclamation of 1763, which established the western and northern 
boundary of the Province of New York at the limits of the Hudson, Mohawk 
and Delaware River watersheds. The area between that boundary and the Great 
Lakes and Saint Lawrence River, including west of the Appalachian Mountains, 
was to be the "Indian Reserve." Between 1774 and 1783, deeply divided colonists 
waged civil war on each other directly and by proxy, through attacks such 
as the Seneca-led Cherry Valley and the Mohawk-led Cobleskill massacre. 
In 1779, the Sullivan Expedition, a campaign by the Continental Army ordered 
by General George Washington, drove thousands of the Haudenosaunee from 
their villages, farms and lands in the region in an effort to both avenge 
and prevent such attacks. The region was strategically important to the 
war plans of both the British and the Continental forces. British efforts 
to divide the New England colonies from the rest led to battles including 
the Battle of Valcour Island and the Battle of Saratoga, a significant 
turning point in the war. While New York City remained in the hands of 
the British during most of the war, the upstate region was eventually dominated 
by the Colonial forces. At the end of the war, the Continental Army was 
headquartered in Newburgh. Uncertain that the Continental Congress would 
pay back wages, some Continental officers threatened an uprising in what 
became known as the Newburgh Conspiracy. After the American Revolution, 
the Treaty of Paris established the border between New York and British 
North America. The 45th Parallel became the border with Quebec or Lower 
Canada. The St. Lawrence River, Lake Ontario, the Niagara River and Lake 
Erie became the border with Upper Canada. Great Britain continued to occupy 
military installations along the American shores of the Great Lakes until 
1794, including Fort Niagara at the mouth of the Niagara River and Fort 
Ontario at the mouth of the Oswego River. The government of the new State 
of New York seized the property of New Yorkers who had remained loyal to 
the British crown. Thousands emigrated to colonies that remained under 
British rule, such as Nova Scotia and the newly established Upper Canada 
(now Ontario). Haudenosaunee who had fought with the British also fled. 
The British Crown granted a large tract of land in Upper Canada to their 
Haudenosaunee allies, who established the Grand River settlement. In the 
federal Treaty of Canandaigua, the new United States recognized the title 
of the remaining Haudenosaunee to the land north and west of the Proclamation 
Line of 1763. Nevertheless, New York state officials and private land agents 
sought through the early 19th century to extinguish Indian title to these 
lands via non-Federally-sanctioned treaties, such as the Treaty of Big 
Tree.[37] The Treaties of Buffalo Creek were designed to finally remove 
the last of the native claims in Western New York as part of the federal 
Indian Removal program, but the purchaser failed to buy most of the land 
in time, and some of the tribes objected to their exclusion. Three of the 
four reservations remain in the region to this day; one of the reservations 
leased out their land to form the city of Salamanca, and the coexistence 
of the predominantly white city and the reservation has been a source of 
contention since the 1990s. Both before and after the Revolution, boundary 
disputes with other colonies and their successor states also complicated 
American settlement. In conflict with New York Colony's claims west of 
the Hudson Valley, which placed the entire region in the sprawling Albany 
County, Pennsylvania Colony claimed much of the Southern Tier until 1774, 
while Massachusetts Bay Colony claimed all of the region west of Massachusetts 
to the Great Lakes. The Province of New York also claimed jurisdiction 
east to the Connecticut River. To pursue this claim north of Connecticut 
and Massachusetts, New York granted lands to settlers in what is now Vermont 
at the same time that New Hampshire made grants of the same lands. When 
Vermont declared independence in 1777, the new Republic of Vermont recognized 
the New Hampshire grants over those of New York. New Yorkers who lost land 
in Vermont came to be known as the "Vermont Sufferers" and were granted 
new lands in 1788 in the Town of Bainbridge, New York. The dispute with 
Massachusetts over lands to the west of Massachusetts was settled in the 
1786 Treaty of Hartford by dividing the rights to the land. The treaty 
granted sovereignty to the State of New York, but granted to the Commonwealth 
of Massachusetts the "pre-emptive" right to seek title to the land from 
the Haudenosaunee. The eastern boundary of the Massachusetts lands was 
thus known as the Preemption Line. This line runs from the Pennsylvania 
line due north to Lake Ontario, passing through Seneca Lake. The line was 
surveyed a second time due to initial errors. The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
sold this land in large tracts, including the Phelps and Gorham Purchase 
and the Holland Purchase. Many of the settlers of what then became Central 
and Western New York came from the New England states. The Central New 
York Military Tract, where many of the townships were given the names of 
classical military and literary figures by Robert Harpur, was established 
to grant land to Revolutionary War veterans. Some of Northern New York 
was founded by the hundreds of Canadian exiles who had fought in the First 
and Second Canadian Regiments of the Continental Army, who were banished 
from Canada due to their rebellion against the Crown. Battles of the War 
of 1812 (1812–1815) were fought on the Niagara Frontier, in the Champlain 
Valley, including the Battle of Plattsburgh, in the St. Lawrence Valley, 
and on Lake Ontario, including the Battle of Sackets Harbor. The city of 
Buffalo was razed by the British as well.[38] After the war, the US Government 
began to construct Fort Montgomery just south of the border at Rouses Point 
on Lake Champlain. Subsequently it was discovered that at that point, the 
actual 45th parallel was three-quarters of a mile south of the surveyed 
line, putting the Fort, which became known as "Fort Blunder", in Canada. 
This was not resolved until 1842 with the Webster-Ashburton Treaty, in 
which Great Britain and the United States decided to leave the border on 
the meandering line as surveyed. Slavery existed in New Netherland and 
the Province of New York. New York was in the 1690s the largest importer 
of slaves among the American colonies. Slavery did not end with the American 
Revolution, although John Jay introduced an emancipation bill into the 
State Assembly as early as 1777. Sojourner Truth was held as a slave in 
the Hudson Valley from the time she was born in 1797 until she escaped 
in 1826. Through efforts of the New York Manumission Society and others, 
New York began to adopt a policy of gradual emancipation in 1799. The law 
passed in 1817 that would finally emancipate slaves did not take effect 
for ten years, giving slaveowners an entire decade to sell their slaves 
away to other states. When the law finally took effect, the last 2,800 
slaves in New York State were emancipated on July 4, 1827. Although routes 
for travel on foot and by canoe had existed across the region for hundreds 
of years, transportation of agricultural goods to market was expensive 
and slow. Influenced by the canals being built in Britain, leading citizens 
of New York began to press for the construction of a canal across the state. 
Governor DeWitt Clinton prevailed upon the legislature to charter and fund 
construction of a canal from Albany to Buffalo. Construction of the Erie 
Canal began in 1817 and was completed in 1825. The canal allowed the area 
to become an important component of the 19th century industrial expansion 
in the United States. The canal also promoted trade with British North 
America and settlement of newer states in western territories. Later in 
the century the New York Central Railroad followed the "water-level route" 
from New York City to the Great Lakes, contributing to the industrialization 
of cities along its route. Several times in the nineteenth century, Upstate 
New York served as a staging area and refuge for Canadian rebels against 
Great Britain, as well as Irish-American invaders of Canada, straining 
British-American relations. In 1837 and 1838, in the aftermath of the Lower 
Canada Rebellion, some Québécois rebels escaped south to the North Country, 
while on the Niagara Frontier, events of the Upper Canada Rebellion, also 
known as the Patriot War, took place. In the late 1860s, some of the Fenian 
Raids were launched across the Niagara Frontier; Fenians also assembled 
in Malone. Although now largely discredited, the report of the 1905–07 
Mills Commission, charged with investigating the origins of baseball, named 
Cooperstown as the place where baseball was invented in the 1830s or 1840s 
by Abner Doubleday. Cooperstown is the home of the National Baseball Hall 
of Fame and Museum. (Modern research suggests that the game was actually 
developed in its modern form in New York City.) In the pre-Civil War era, 
Upstate New York became a major center of radical abolitionist activity 
and was an important nexus of the Underground Railroad. Resistance to the 
Fugitive Slave Act was particularly heated in the region, as evidenced 
by such events as the Jerry Rescue. The American women's rights movement 
was also born in Upstate New York at this time. The Seneca Falls Convention, 
the first women's rights convention, was held at Seneca Falls in 1848. 
The Rochester Convention, the second such convention, was held two weeks 
later in Rochester. Through the nineteenth century, Upstate New York was 
a hotbed of religious revivalism. A number of sects, such as the Shakers 
and the Oneida Community, established themselves in Upstate New York during 
that time. This led evangelist Charles Grandison Finney to coin the term 
the "Burned-Over District" for the region. Because of the comparative isolation 
of the region, many of the sects were non-conformist, and because of their 
non-traditional tenets they had numerous difficulties with government and 
other local people. The region is considered to be the cradle of Mormonism, 
as well as the Women's Suffrage movement. The Mormons, Seventh-day Adventists 
and Spiritualists are the only 21st century survivors of the hundreds of 
sects created during this time; some more mainstream churches, such as 
the Wesleyan Church and Free Methodist Church (both offshoots of Methodism 
that originated in political disputes with the mainline Methodist church), 
also survive. In the 19th century, extractive industries changed the landscape. 
Potash was manufactured as the land was cleared for farming. Logging was 
rampant in the Adirondacks. Iron was mined in the Adirondacks and the North 
Country. By the 1870s, business leaders, concerned about the effect of 
deforestation on the water supply necessary to the Erie Canal, advocated 
for the creation of forest preserves in the Adirondacks and the Catskills. 
The Adirondack Park and Catskill Park were created and strengthened by 
a series of legislation between 1885 and 1894, when the "Forever wild" 
provision of the New York State Constitution was added. During the era 
immediately following World War II, Upstate reached what was probably its 
peak influence in the national economy. Major local corporations such as 
IBM, General Electric, Kodak, Xerox and Carrier had national success, producing 
cutting-edge products for business, government and consumers, and leadership 
in corporate culture. The opening of the New York State Thruway in the 
mid-1950s gave the region superior access to other eastern markets. This 
regional advantage faded as many local firms relocated certain operations 
to other states, or downsized in the face of foreign competition, similar 
to events in other areas in the American Rust Belt. Since the late 20th 
century, with the decline of manufacturing and its jobs, the area has generally 
suffered a net population loss, most heavily in Western New York.[citation 
needed] By contrast, many Amish and Mennonite families are recent arrivals 
to the area and have helped revive agriculture as part of the economy. 
Beginning in 1974, many Mennonite families moved to the Penn Yan area of 
Yates County from Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, seeking cheaper farmland. 
Amish communities have also been established in St. Lawrence, Montgomery, 
Chautauqua and Cattaraugus counties, and are making farming profitable. 
Artisans are reviving traditional specialty cheeses, and developing growing 
markets for their products, including shipping some items to the New York 
metropolitan market. A Greek-style yogurt, Chobani, is being produced Upstate 
by a recent immigrant, who has expanded his operation nationally. Additionally, 
Upstate New York continues to boast low crime rates, high educational prospects, 
and readily affordable daily essentials, earning Syracuse, Rochester, Albany, 
Schenectady, and Buffalo spots in the Forbes magazine list of top ten places 
to raise a family in the United States.[39] Five of the six Iroquois nations 
have filed land claims against New York State (or have sought settlement 
of pending claims), based on late 18th-century treaties following the American 
Revolutionary War with the State of New York (which did not have constitutional 
authority to treat with American Indian nations) and the United States. 
Often attributed to the region's semi-rural character, there is more conservatism 
in culture and politics than found in the more urban downstate area, and 
the region is the power base of the state's Republican Party. Upstate New 
York does however have several Democratic counties, including Erie County 
(Buffalo), Monroe County (Rochester), Onondaga County (Syracuse), Tompkins 
County (Ithaca), Albany County (Albany), Broome County (Binghamton), Clinton 
(Plattsburgh), Franklin County (Malone), St. Lawrence County (Massena, 
Potsdam, Ogdensburg) and Ulster County (Kingston, Woodstock, New Paltz). 
As a whole, Upstate New York is roughly equally divided in federal elections 
between Democrats and Republicans. In 2004, John Kerry defeated George 
W. Bush by fewer than 1,500 votes (1,553,246 votes to 1,551,971) in the 
Upstate Region. New York City is dependent on upstate for a variety of 
services; it is the source of the city's water supply via the Delaware 
Aqueduct and the Catskill Aqueduct; much of the city's electric power supply 
comes from state owned hydroelectric plants at Niagara Falls and the St. 
Lawrence River; and most of the state's prisons are upstate; hence the 
popular term "being sent up the river" (however, the term originally referred 
to Sing Sing, which is "up the Hudson River" from New York City, but being 
in Ossining in Westchester County is still in the "downstate" region). 
Conversely, the operation of state facilities providing these services 
