In sport, a utility player is one who can play several positions competently, 
a sort of jack of all trades. Sports in which the term is often used include 
football, baseball, rugby union, rugby league, water polo, and softball. 
The term has gained prominence in all sports due to its use in fantasy 
leagues, but in rugby and rugby league, it is commonly used by commentators 
to recognize a player's versatility. In football, like other sports, the 
utility man is usually a player who can play myriad positions. This will 
commonly be defence and midfield, sometimes defence and attack. A few outfield 
players have also made competent substitute goalkeepers, for example Phil 
Jagielka, Jan Koller (originally trained as a goalkeeper before converting 
into a striker) and Cosmin Moți.[1] But in the case of goalkeepers playing 
as outfield players, it is extremely rare. Some may be free kick and penalty 
specialists (Rogério Ceni, José Luis Chilavert and Jorge Campos), but they 
do not hold a role in the outfield. John O'Shea, a former Manchester United 
player, is a famous example for playing in all positions in his United 
career. More recently, another Manchester United player, Phil Jones has 
become a utility player being used as a right back, and centre back as 
well as taking up both defensive and more attacking midfield roles. The 
former Bulgarian international and Sporting Lisbon player Ivaylo Yordanov 
has played in all three outfield roles. Former Scottish international and 
Rangers F.C. captain Lee McCulloch also played in every outfield role for 
the club. Former Dutch international and Feyenoord, PSV Eindhoven and Milan 
player, Ruud Gullit played as a defender, midfielder and striker. In baseball, 
a utility player is a player who can play several different positions. 
In general, each Major League Baseball team has at least one player who 
can be described as a utility player. Most professional teams have two 
types of utility players. There are "utility infielders", who usually play 
all of the infield positions (plus occasionally catcher). Utility outfielders, 
or fourth outfielders, tend to play all three outfield positions at various 
times. Occasionally, there will be players who perform a combination of 
the two duties. Utility players tend to be players who come off of the 
bench, though this isn't absolute. Often, players who don't have high prospects 
to be a major league star will learn additional positions so they can look 
more attractive to major league clubs as bench talent. In 1991, the Detroit 
Tigers' Tony Phillips was the first player to start ten games at five different 
positions in the same season.[2] César Tovar,[3] Cookie Rojas,[4] Bert 
Campaneris,[5] Shane Halter,[6] Don Kelly, and Jose Oquendo[7] all played 
every position (including pitcher) during their respective careers. In 
2005 Chone Figgins started 48 games at third, 45 in center field and 36 
at second, and finished 17th in American League Most Valuable Player balloting.[8] 
Ryan Theriot of the San Francisco Giants has played shortstop, third base, 
second and outfield at some point in his short major league career. Mark 
DeRosa for the Chicago Cubs, Cleveland Indians, St. Louis Cardinals Atlanta 
Braves, and the San Francisco Giants has played most defensive positions. 
Former third baseman Brandon Inge has played third base, catcher, left 
field, right field, and center field. Second baseman Ben Zobrist of the 
Chicago Cubs has played first, third, second, shortstop and outfield, José 
Bautista of Toronto Blue Jays has played first base, second base, third 
base, and outfield, and Josh Harrison of the Pittsburgh Pirates has played 
second base, shortstop, third base, outfield, and pitcher. All three have 
been named All Stars while playing multiple positions in their All-Star 
seasons.[9] In 2015, Brock Holt of the Boston Red Sox was the first player 
ever to be selected to the All Star Game after starting at seven or more 
positions before the break.[10] Zobrist and Bautista both finished in the 
top 10 in MVP voting while starting at least 40 games at two different 
defensive positions. Luis Sojo is considered to be the classic modern utility 
player in baseball, as he was a natural shortstop, but could also play 
3rd base, 2nd base, 1st base, and even left field. It was said that in 
emergency situations, he could even play a bit of catcher. A third type 
of utility player is often seen in youth baseball, and occasionally in 
college baseball—a player talented enough as a pitcher and position player 
to play in both roles. An example of this type of utility player in modern 
college baseball is A. J. Reed, who was the consensus national player of 
the year in 2014 with Kentucky while playing regularly as a first baseman 
and starting pitcher.[11][12][13][14] The term "utility player" is rarely 
used in basketball outside of fantasy basketball leagues.[15] Instead; 
basketball uses the terms tweener and swingman to refer to a player who 
can play two or three different positions, with more specific terms being 
combo guard, forward-center, and stretch four. In ice hockey, it is common 
for centres and wingers to play either position in certain situations. 
Depending on need, a team may use a natural centreman on the wing if they 
have too many centres or, conversely, a winger may be pressed to play centre 
because of a lack of suitable players in that area. Because of the frequency 
of forwards playing both positions, the term utility player tends to refer 
not to a player that plays more than one forward position, but to a player 
that can play both defence and forward. Teams may use a defenceman as a 
forward, or vice versa, for a variety of reasons. Sometimes a natural defenceman 
who struggles on the defensive side of the game but possesses strong offensive 
qualities may be used as a winger. Marc-Andre Bergeron and Kurtis Foster, 
for example, have proven to be quality offensive defencemen who struggle 
in defending their own zone. As such, they have dressed as forwards so 
their teams can continue to use their offensive abilities on the powerplay 
while still using the standard six defencemen during even strength. An 
extra defenceman may also be pressed to play forward in an emergency situation, 
where a team has a rash of injuries to their forwards and do not have time 
to summon a replacement player from a farm team. It is very common for 
teams to use a forward on "the point" (defence) during the powerplay to 
provide a greater offensive threat. Though the forward is playing defence 
in this situation, they aren't necessarily seen as true utility players. 
Along with Bergeron and Foster, other notable defencemen that have played 
forward at some point in their careers include Phil Housley, Mark Streit,[16] 
Christoph Schubert, Ian White and Chris Campoli.[17] Notable forwards who 
have played defence include Sergei Fedorov,[18] Mathieu Dandenault, Brooks 
Laich and Sami Kapanen.[19] In some cases a player has made a full-time 
conversion from one position to the other and experienced success. Hockey 
Hall of Famer Red Kelly spent the first half of his career as an offensive 
defenceman for the Detroit Red Wings before finishing his career as a strong 
two-way centreman for the Toronto Maple Leafs. Wendel Clark was a star 
defenceman in junior before converting to left wing and scoring over 300 
goals and 500 points in 15 NHL seasons. (Some junior hockey teams have 
a tendency to put their best offensive players on defence instead of as 
forwards, since defencemen generally have more time on the ice.) Dustin 
Byfuglien is an example of a current player who has made the switch from 
forward to defence full-time. Jonathan Ericsson of the Detroit Red Wings 
is another example of a player who converted from forward to defense.[20] 
It is extremely rare for goaltenders to play any position other than goaltender; 
likewise, it is just as rare for non-goaltenders to suit up in goal, because 
of the significant difference in skills and equipment required for the 
position. In gridiron football, the utility player is often capable of 
playing multiple positions, and often they may play both offense and defense. 
The concept was far more common in the early days of football, when pro 
teams used their best athletes as many ways as possible, and substitutions 
were far more restricted, meaning players had to stay on the field for 
offense, defense and "special teams". This was known as the one-platoon 
system. The triple threat man, who could run, pass and kick, was particularly 
popular during the early days of football from the time the forward pass 
was invented to the World War II era (see, for instance, Bradbury Robinson, 
Tommy Hughitt, Sammy Baugh and, during his college years, Johnny Unitas). 
Most levels of football lifted the substitution restrictions during the 
post-World War II era in the late 1940s, beginning with "platooning" (use 
of different offensive and defensive units) and eventually transitioning 
to complete free substitution. Chuck Bednarik, a center and linebacker, 
was the last full-time two way player in the NFL, having retired in 1962. 
Despite this, the American Football League of the 1960s frequently used 
players at multiple positions, particularly kickers and punters (e.g. George 
Blanda, Paul Maguire, Cookie Gilchrist, Gino Cappelletti, and Gene Mingo, 
a running back who became the first black placekicker in modern professional 
football, among others). Because of increased injury risk awareness, since 
the AFL-NFL merger these types of players are increasingly rare, and true 
utility players usually end up specializing in one position (for example, 
Lane Johnson played quarterback, tight end, defensive end and offensive 
tackle through college but was tagged specifically at offensive tackle 
when drafted into the NFL). Those that do play multiple positions for any 
extended period of time are mostly backups (e.g. Guido Merkens, Brad Smith) 
or career minor-league players (e.g. Don Jonas, Eric Crouch). It is still 
very common in smaller high schools to see top players play two or even 
three ways (offense, defense and special teams), in multiple positions, 
but in college and pro ball, where rosters are larger and the talent pool 
is more elite, the injury risk outweighs potential benefits. Currently, 
in the National Football League, Bill Belichick of the New England Patriots 
uses the utility player frequently. For instance, Doug Flutie, as a former 
member of the Patriots, famously switched from quarterback to kicker for 
one extra-point play in 2006, to deliver the first drop kick in the NFL 
in sixty years. Belichick has also used his linebackers, including Bryan 
Cox and Mike Vrabel, as H-backs on offense, and doubled his wide receivers 
(e.g. Troy Brown and Randy Moss) as cornerbacks and safeties. Additionally, 
Houston Texans defensive end J.J. Watt lined up at tight end in special 
goal-line packages in 2014, catching three touchdown passes. The 6' 5" 
Watt played tight end in high school before becoming a full-time defensive 
player. The tackle eligible is a special form of utility player; examples 
of those who used this play notably include Jason Peters, Warren Sapp, 
Jumbo Elliott, William "The Refrigerator" Perry, Mitch Frerotte and Anthony 
Muñoz. Another example of a type of utility player is the halfback option 
play, in which a running back performs the passing duties of a quarterback; 
Walter Payton, LaDanian Tomlinson and most recently Ronnie Brown have used 
this play multiple times, and this type of play has spawned an entire offensive 
scheme. Note that generally, a player who plays one regular position as 
well as special teams is usually not considered a utility player, nor are 
hybrid running back/wide receivers such as Reggie Bush; only those who 
play two distinct offensive and/or defensive positions are considered such, 
as are those who play an offensive or defensive position and in addition 
kick or punt. The "offense/offensive weapon" (also known as OW) is an offensive 
player that can play multiple different positions. The OW role contains, 
but is not limited too, players that can play quarterback, running back, 
tight end, and wide receiver. Kordell Stewart was the first player to be 
used in this role back in the 1990s, but it became popular in the early 
2010s. Back when Stewart played this role, it was known as the "Slash" 
role. The Jacksonville Jaguars' OW Denard Robinson was the first to be 
officially an OW but other current examples of the OW position include 
Carolina Panthers Quarterback Joe Webb (has started at WR in the NFL) and 
Minnesota Vikings Tight End and Fullback MarQueis Gray (who started at 
QB and WR at the University of Minnesota). The Arena Football League, for 
many years, made almost all of its players, with the exception of two players 
on each side (always a quarterback, a kicker {the quarterback and kicker 
were never on the field at the same time} and usually a wide receiver and 
two defensive backs), play both sides of the ball; this was known as "ironman." 
The "ironman" concept was dropped in 2007, and was not reinstated before 
the original league folded after the 2008 season. The concept has not been 
used since the league's relaunch in 2010. With the exception of the now 
defunct NFL Europe almost all European American Football leagues have players 
that play offense defense and special teams. Especially when the number 
of "American" players is limited they are often on the field for as many 
snaps as possible both on offense and defense The use of utility in rugby 
league is more expansive because not only would a player play only at backs' 
(or forwards') positions, some may play in forward and back positions with 
similar roles (e.g. halfback/hooker), or even play so many different positions 
as injury cover. Lance Hohaia is a prime example of this as he played in 
six different positions in his NRL career. Utility player is a term used 
mostly in New Zealand. In rugby union, it comes in a form of utility back. 
It is mostly a back who can cover at least two positions. Notable examples 
in New Zealand include Daniel Bowden, Luke McAlister and Cory Jane, but 
Australia also has many utility backs like Adam Ashley-Cooper, Kurtley 
Beale and Matt Giteau. A South African example is François Steyn. Despite 
that, there are forwards who are capable of covering multiple positions. 
Many players in the back row of the scrum (flankers and number eights) 
will frequently switch between the two positions. Less often, a player 
may also be capable of playing lock as well as a back-row position, with 
several modern examples being Sébastien Chabal, Steven Luatua, and Kieran 
Read with all three being capped internationally. However, this description 
never applies to props who can play both ends of the front row (i.e. Numbers 
1 & 3), unless the player has the ability to cover as a hooker (e.g. John 
Afoa, a prop who could cover as a hooker, or John Smit, primarily a hooker 
but also capped internationally at both prop positions). In fantasy baseball 
and basketball, a utility player is a player (specifically a batter in 
baseball) who accumulates statistics without being assigned to a particular 
position. The batter can play any position; he need not actually be a utility 
player (for example, if a fantasy manager has two first baseman, he can 
assign one to the first base position and one to a utility slot). Similarly, 
a person assigned a utility slot in fantasy basketball need not be a tweener 
