Valencia (Spanish pronunciation: [baˈlensja]) is the capital city of Carabobo 
State, and the third largest city of Venezuela. The city is an economic 
hub that contains Venezuela's top industries and manufacturing companies. 
The population of Valencia and the nearby metropolitan area reached 1,827,165 
in 2010, and it is expected to grow dramatically in the years to come. 
Caracas lies some 172 kilometres (107 miles) away to the east. The area 
was already inhabited in the fourth millennium BC. The inhabitants were 
mainly hunters and gatherers who might have already developed some elementary 
forms of agriculture. Between AD 200 and 1000 an important settlement was 
formed close to Lake Valencia. Around the year 1000, waves of migration 
started to come from the Orinoco river area, probably arriving along the 
Pao river. The fusion of previous settlements with these new populations 
gave rise to the Vacencioide culture.[1][2] People in the area belonged 
mostly to Arawak groups. They were hunters and gatherers who also fished 
and grew maize and cotton. Their houses were built on artificial mounds 
in valleys that were often flooded by water from Lake Valencia. Archaeologists 
have found mostly pottery from that time. Valencia was founded by Captain 
Alonso Díaz Moreno on March 25, 1555 – as the locals are proud of reminding 
visitors, eight years before Caracas. It was the first Spanish settlement 
in central Venezuela and its official name was Nuestra Señora de la Asunción 
de Nueva Valencia del Rey. It was named after Valencia de Don Juan, Province 
of León, Spain. The encomiendas put the Indians living in the region under 
the control of the Spanish settlers. They started to displace the native 
population from the most fertile land, but they also started intermarrying 
with them. Spanish conquistador Lope de Aguirre entered the city in 1561. 
In 1677 it was raided by French pirates, who burnt down its City Hall, 
thus destroying many very important documents about the early settlement 
of Venezuela. The German scientist Alexander von Humboldt visited the city 
on his trip through the Americas. He reported that at the time of his visit 
the city had around 6000 to 7000 inhabitants. On June 24, 1821 the battle 
of Carabobo was fought on the outskirts of the city, sealing the independence 
of Venezuela from imperial Spanish rule. In 1830 Valencia became capital 
of Venezuela after it separated from the Great Colombia. It stopped being 
capital soon thereafter and became once more the seat of the national government 
in 1858 after the Monagas was toppled and the March Revolution took place. 
On November 15, 1892 the University of Valencia, future University of Carabobo, 
was founded. When dictator Juan Vicente Gómez died in 1935, Nueva Valencia 
del Rey was a small city. The oil revenues and industrialization that came 
along lead to a population explosion. Many immigrants, firstly from Europe 
and increasingly then from other Latin American countries, chose Nueva 
Valencia del Rey as the place to live in Venezuela. The first direct election 
of local governments (including those of the mayor and of the state's government) 
took place in 1988. Valencia was one of the places where Hugo Chávez's 
proposal for the constitutional reform was rejected with the highest proportion 
of votes: around 59.21% of the population rejected it.[3] An Italian tribunal 
ruled that physicist Ettore Majorana who disappeared in 1938 was living 
in Valencia during the late Fifties. See here: [4] Valencia is located 
in a central valley, surrounded by a mountain range called the Coastal 
Range (Cordillera de la Costa). On the eastern outskirts of the city lies 
Lake Valencia, Venezuela's second largest lake. To the West and Northeastern 
part there are mountains. The South is an extension of the Venezuelan grasslands, 
the Llanos. The elevation of the city is 520 metres (1,710 feet). Valencia, 
due to its latitude and closeness to the sea, has relatively warm temperatures. 
The yearly average is 26 °C (79 °F), (23.3 °C (73.9 °F) in the shade, a 
maximum of 32.6 °C (90.7 °F) and minimum of 18.5 °C (65.3 °F)). The city 
is located 479 metres (1,572 feet) above sea level. Winds reduce the temperature 
in the afternoon. The Cabriales river has problems with pollution. The 
most important waste disposal centre of Greater Valencia and Carabobo is 
located southwest of Valencia proper, in the Municipio Libertador, in La 
Guásima. There waste is basically burnt without any special equipment.[4] 
City of Valencia Municipalities[5] The City of Valencia is made of five 
(5) municipalities:[7] Valencia, Libertador, Los Guayos, Naguanagua, and 
San Diego. Venezuelan law specifies that every municipal government have 
four main functions: executive, legislative, comptroller, and planning. 
The executive function is managed by the mayor of every municipality, who 
is in charge of representing the municipality's administration. The legislative 
branch is represented by the Municipal Council, composed of seven councillors 
for each municipality, charged with the deliberation of new decrees and 
local laws. The comptroller tasks are managed by the municipal comptroller's 
office, which oversees accountancy. Finally, planning is represented by 
the Local Public Planning Council, which manages development projects for 
the municipality. The main newspapers of the region are El Carabobeño[8] 
and Notitarde,[9] with a circulation going from 75000 to 92000. The main 
TV Stations in Valencia are Ecovisión (Channel 36 UHF) and DAT TV(Channel 
30 UHF) The private Digital Newspaper of Carabobo State is ACN - Agencia 
Carabobeña de Noticias(Carabobo's News Agency). The main centre of higher 
education in Nueva Valencia del Rey is the University of Carabobo, one 
of the most important public universities of Venezuela. The direction of 
the University and some administratives centres are located in the Valencia 
Municipality, whereas most of the buildings are currently in the Naguanagua 
of the same city. Other institutions of higher education are the Universidad 
Tecnológica del Centro (UNITEC), Universidad Arturo Michelena (UAM), Universidad 
José Antonio Páez (UJAP), Universidad Alejandro de Humboldt (UAH), Universidad 
Experimental Politécnica de las Fuerzas Armadas (UNEFA) in La Isabelica, 
the Instituto Nacional de Capacitación y Educación (INCE) in Los Colorados, 
La Isabelica and La Quizanda. The main public library in Valencia is the 
Manuel Feo La Cruz Public Library, located in the city centre and open 
7 days a week. Other public libraries are the Public Library of the Athenaeum 
of Valencia and the Morita Carillo Public Library, in the San Blas civic 
parish. The city is well connected with the rest of the country by a network 
of highways and roads maintained by INVIAL. Home of the popular Venezuelan 
professional sport club: NAVEGANTES DEL MAGALLANES (LVBP baseball) Other 
professional teams: TROTAMUNDOS DE CARABOBO (LPB basketball) CARABOBO FC 
(FVF soccer) INDUSTRIALES DE VALENCIA (LSV volleyball) Valencia is twinned 
