Van Patrick (August 15, 1916 – September 29, 1974) was an American sportscaster, 
best known for his play-by-play work with the Detroit Lions and Detroit 
Tigers. Patrick called Lions games from 1950 until his death in 1974[1] 
He had two stints with the Tigers, broadcasting for the team for one season 
in 1949 and then again from 1952 to 1959.[2] During the 1960s and 1970s, 
Patrick was sports director for the Mutual Broadcasting System and broadcast 
Notre Dame football and Monday Night Football for the network. He also 
did TV sports news segments during news broadcasts on Detroit's WJBK-TV. 
He had superb knowledge of both football and baseball, and was widely admired 
for his broadcasting skills during his radio heyday. He did not make the 
transition to television well, as he was naturally bald and insisted on 
wearing a very inexpensive toupée in television appearances. "Van Patrick's 
toupée" was a source of many jokes in the Detroit area during that period. 
He graduated from Texas Christian University (TCU), where he played football 
with future Washington Redskins quarterback and Pro Football Hall of Fame 
inductee Sammy Baugh.[3] He also played baseball and basketball at TCU. 
After graduating, he began his broadcast career as a baseball play-by-play 
announcer in various minor leagues, including the International League, 
the Texas League and the old Southern Association.[3] His first major league 
play-by-play broadcasting was with the world-champion-to-be Cleveland Indians 
in 1948.[3] He also called the World Series along with celebrated sportscaster 
Red Barber.[3] Game 2 of that Series announced by Patrick, won by the Indians, 
made television history. Telecast live from Braves Field in Boston, it 
was shown aboard the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad's Marylander passenger 
train travelling between Washington, D.C. and New York City using a receiver 
operated by Bendix Corporation technicians.[4] An Associated Press reporter 
observing the demonstration said, "Technically, it was surprisingly good."[4] 
From 1949 to 1953, Patrick was sports director at Detroit station WJR.[3] 
At the time of his death in 1974, he owned four radio stations.[5] He died 
of cancer while preparing to call a Notre Dame football game in South Bend, 
Indiana. The Notre Dame Club of Chicago established the Van Patrick Award 
