Van Lingle Mungo (June 8, 1911 – February 12, 1985) was a Major League 
Baseball right-handed pitcher known for his career with the Brooklyn Dodgers. 
Mungo played for the Dodgers from 1931 to 1941 and finished his baseball 
career with the New York Giants.[1] Mungo began his career with the Charlotte 
Hornets when he was 18 years old. A succession of managers over the years, 
including Casey Stengel, was convinced that the hard-throwing right-hander 
would be a surefire star for years to come. These lofty expectations can 
be attributed in part to a phenomenal debut performance in which he shut 
out the Boston Braves over 9 innings, striking out 12; but he was never 
able to live up to his perceived potential. While he finished his career 
with two 18-win seasons, one of them also included 19 losses. Mungo's teammates 
contended that he could easily have won more games had he not tried to 
strike out every batter; Mungo countered that he wouldn't have tried to 
strike everyone out if he had more confidence in his teammates' fielding 
abilities. Mungo averaged 16 wins per season from 1932 through 1936, and 
led the National League in strikeouts with 238 in 1936. He was named to 
the All-Star team in 1934, 1936, and 1937. Though his strikeout counts 
were impressive, he also led the league in walks several times. Following 
an arm injury in 1937 he won only 13 games over the next six seasons. After 
a spring training injury in 1943 he was released by the Dodgers and played 
his final season with the Giants.[2] He completed his major league career 
with a 120-115 won-lost record over 2113 innings pitched and a 3.47 earned 
run average.[1][3][4][5] Stories and anecdotes about Mungo tend to emphasize 
his reputation for combativeness, including episodes of drinking and fighting. 
"Mungo and I got along just fine", reported Casey Stengel, his manager 
on the Dodgers. "I won't stand for no nonsense, and then I duck." The most 
widely told story concerns a visit to Cuba where, supposedly, Mungo was 
caught in a compromising position with a married woman by her husband. 
Mungo punched the husband in the eye, leading him to attack Mungo with 
a butcher knife or machete, requiring Dodgers executive Babe Hamberger 
to smuggle Mungo in a laundry cart to a seaplane waiting off a wharf in 
order to escape the country.[6] Van Mungo wasn't just a pistol off the 
field; on the field he was bent towards conflict with his teammates and 
managers. There are several stories of run-ins and conflict with his teammates 
and managers. Once while he was protecting a small margin of victory, outfielder 
Tom Winsett botched a routine fly-ball that cost Mungo a victory. Mungo 
retreated to the dugout and clubhouse to destroy what he could destroy 
and throw into the field of play what he could not destroy. Mungo sent 
his wife a telegram stating the following: ¨Pack up your bags and come 
to Brooklyn, honey. If Winsett can play in the big leagues, it's a cinch 
you can, too." It is also true that Van Lingle Mungo probably paid more 
in fines than any player of his era, amassing a grand total (in his own 
estimation) of over $15,000.[7] Mungo returned to the public eye in 1969 
because of the use of his prosodic name as the title of a novelty song 
by Dave Frishberg. The song lyrics consist entirely of the names of baseball 
players of the 1940s, strung together to a bossa nova beat. Mungo is one 
of only five players mentioned more than once and his name functions as 
a kind of refrain. According to Frishberg, The Dick Cavett Show arranged 
to have him sing the song to Mungo in person, and Mungo asked him backstage 
if there would ever be any financial remuneration for the use of his name 
in the song. Frishberg told him no, but maybe Mungo could make some money 
if he wrote a song called "Dave Frishberg". Ironically, today Mungo is 
remembered primarily because of the song.[6] Van Lingle Mungo may also 
be remembered as one of the unfortunate baseball pitchers in history who 
never played on a team with equal talent to his and thus never was able 
to attain a win loss record equal to his talent level. More famous for 
his managerial career, former pitcher Tommy Lasorda was given the nickname 
"Mungo" because of his "lightning fastball" and his ability to strike batters 
out.[8] Mungo returned to his hometown of Pageland, South Carolina after 
retiring in 1944, and lived there until his death in 1985. He purchased 
and operated a movie house called the Ball Theatre, and had a balcony built 
to accommodate people of color, who had previously been denied access to 
