Van Cortlandt Park is a 1,146-acre (464 ha) park located in the borough 
of the Bronx in New York City. It is the third largest park in New York 
City, behind Pelham Bay Park and Staten Island Greenbelt. The park was 
named for Stephanus Van Cortlandt, who was the first native-born mayor 
of New York, and the Van Cortlandt family, which was prominent in the area 
during the Dutch and English colonial periods. Contained within the park 
is the Van Cortlandt House Museum, the oldest building in the Bronx. The 
park is owned by the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation and 
managed with assistance from the Van Cortlandt Park Conservancy, a private 
non-profit organization founded in 2009, and the Friends of Van Cortlandt 
Park, an independent non-profit established in 1992. There are two nearby 
New York City Subway stations. The eastern side of the park is served by 
the Woodlawn subway station (4 train), and the western side by 242nd Street 
subway station (1 train). Van Cortlandt Park contains New York City's largest 
freshwater lake.[1] The Wiechquaskeck Lenapes were among the first recorded 
people to settle in the area now referred to as Van Cortlandt Park. The 
Lenapes used the geographic features of the area, such as the Tibbetts 
Brook for fishing and flatland areas for farming, to support their community.[2] 
The land that Van Cortlandt Park now occupies was purchased by Jacobus 
Van Cortlandt from John Barrett around 1691. Passed on to his son Frederick 
Van Cortlandt (1699–1749) and family, it was once a vast grain plantation. 
In 1748, Frederick built what is now known as the Van Cortlandt House on 
the property, but died before its completion. Frederick willed the massive 
home and surrounding lands to his son, James Van Cortlandt (1727–1787). 
The Van Cortlandt family land was used during the Revolutionary War by 
Rochambeau, Lafayette, and Washington. It was in this area that the Stockbridge 
militia was destroyed by the Queen's Rangers; a stone memorial was placed 
at "Indian Field" in 1906.[3] In 1888, the family property was sold to 
the City of New York and made into a public parkland, with the majority 
of the grain fields converted into a sprawling lawn dubbed "The Parade 
Ground". The Van Cortlandt House was converted into a public museum and, 
with the city's approval, particularly overgrown areas of the property 
were made passable. Wide walking paths were built over original walkways, 
including the thin paths that led to the Van Cortlandt family cemetery, 
high on the nearby bluffs. On July 13, 1905, Isaac Mackie won an Open Tournament 
at the Van Cortlandt Park golf links by shooting 152 on a course that had 
been soaked with rain. He held off joint second-place finishers Willie 
Anderson and Bernard Nicholls who finished on 157. It was the first ever 
professional tournament held on a public links golf course in the United 
States.[4] In 1907, due to overcrowding, Dr. William Hornaday transferred 
several of the Bronx Zoo's then-rare bison to Van Cortlandt Park's parade 
grounds. Later that year, they were shipped to prairie land in Oklahoma.[5] 
Robert Moses's development plans in the 1930s called for the construction 
of the Henry Hudson Parkway and Mosholu Parkway to bisect Van Cortlandt 
Park and meet at a cloverleaf interchange about half a mile north of the 
center. The last remaining freshwater marsh in New York City was dredged 
and landscaped to accommodate construction. The Van Cortlandt House was 
added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1967 and became a 
National Historic Landmark in 1976.[6][7] The city's fiscal crisis in the 
1970s caused much of the park to fall into disrepair. Gradual improvements 
began taking place from the late 1980s through the mid-2000s, including 
the addition of new pathways, signage, and security. Van Cortlandt Park 
has numerous attractions and features that are both recreational and educational. 
The park is home to a free public pool, along with numerous playgrounds 
for children and areas dedicated for barbecuing. Van Cortldant Park also 
contains many areas dedicated to various sports, including baseball, basketball, 
soccer, cricket, ice skating, and fishing.[8] The Van Cortlandt Golf Course, 
the nation's first public golf course,[1] opened in 1895 and is located 
centrally on the park grounds. The "Parade Ground" north of the museum 
in the western part of the park is one of New York's principal cricket 
fields. The Putnam Trail, an unpaved trail, runs north through the woods 
to the east of this lawn and west of Van Cortlandt Lake, through the golf 
course and along Tibbets Brook and the former New York and Putnam Railroad 
line into Yonkers where it connects to Westchester County's paved South 
County Trailway. Another bikeway runs east from the golf course's clubhouse 
to connect to the Mosholu Parkway bike path. The Old Croton Aqueduct Trailway 
begins in Van Cortlandt Park. The historic house located in the southern 
part of Van Cortlandt Park was erected by Frederick Van Cortlandt in 1748. 
The estate the house sits on was of major importance during the American 
Revolution. Troops from both the British and Colonial American army rested 
in this house during the time of war. The Van Cortlandt family owned the 
property until they decided to sell both the house and land to the City 
of New York in 1886. Ten years later, the house was restored as a museum 
displaying the cultural and lifestyle of families in the 18th century.[9] 
Van Cortlandt Park is a popular site for cross country running owing to 
its miles of cinder trails and hills. The path surrounding the Parade Grounds, 
known to runners as the "flats", is 1.37 miles (2.20 km) around. The "back 
hills" provide a 1.3-mile (2.1 km) loop in the northwestern section of 
the park. Some trail sections are a part of the East Coast Greenway, a 
3,000-mile-long (4,800 km) trail system connecting Maine to Florida. The 
park was used for the Northeast regional championships of the Foot Locker 
Cross-Country Championships until 2009[10] and is used as numerous college 
championships each fall. The 2.5-mile (4.0 km) course is used for most 
high school races, including the Manhattan College Invitational, one of 
the largest high school cross-country meets in the nation. In 2006, the 
USA Cross-Country Championships were held at Van Cortlandt and organized 
by USATF and New York Road Runners. Van Cortlandt Park is also used for 
many college races and is the home course for Fordham University, Iona 
College, New York University and Manhattan College (which is located right 
across the street). The college course is five miles (8.0 km) long. It 
is used annually for the ICAAAA championships and has hosted the NCAA championships 
on numerous occasions (attendance about 10,000). It is the home course 
for the Van Cortlandt Track Club, which started in the late 1970s as a 
small group of runners meeting for jaunts around the Jerome Park Reservoir 
in the Bronx. The park is the former home of the Manhattan College Jaspers 
college baseball team. For the 2015 season, the Jaspers moved to Dutchess 
Stadium.[11] Coordinates: 40°53′52″N 73°53′02″W﻿ / ﻿40.8978°N 73.8839°W﻿ 
