Vassar College (/ˈvæsər/ VASS-ər) is a private, coeducational, liberal 
arts college in the town of Poughkeepsie, New York, in the United States. 
Founded in 1861 by Matthew Vassar, it was the first degree-granting institution 
of higher education for women in the United States. It became coeducational 
in 1969, and now has a gender ratio at the national average. The school 
is one of the historic Seven Sisters, the first elite female colleges in 
the U.S., and has a historic relationship with Yale University, which suggested 
a merger with the college before coeducation at both institutions. The 
college offers B.A. degrees in more than 50 majors and features a flexible 
curriculum designed to promote a breadth of studies. Vassar also offers 
many extracurricular organizations including student theater, a cappella 
groups, club sports, volunteer and service groups, and a circus troupe. 
Vassar College's varsity sports teams, known as the Brewers, play in the 
NCAA's Division III as members of the Liberty League. Vassar tied for the 
12th best liberal arts college in the nation in the 2017 annual ranking 
of U.S. News & World Report, with admissions described as "most selective." 
For the freshman class entering fall 2016, the college had an acceptance 
rate of 26.9%. The total number of students attending the college is around 
2,450. The Vassar campus comprises over 1,000 acres (400 ha) and more than 
100 buildings, including two National Historic Landmarks and an additional 
National Historic Place. A designated arboretum, the campus features more 
than 200 species of trees, a native plant preserve, and a 400-acre (160 ha) 
ecological preserve. Vassar was founded as a women's school under the name 
Vassar Female College in 1861. Quickly thereafter its founder, Matthew 
Vassar, had the word Female cut from the name, prompting some residents 
of the town of Poughkeepsie, New York to quip that its founder believed 
it might one day admit male students. The college became coeducational 
in 1969.[7] Vassar was the second of the Seven Sisters colleges, higher 
education schools that were formerly strictly for women, and historically 
sister institutions to the Ivy League. It was chartered by its namesake, 
brewer Matthew Vassar, in 1861 in the Hudson Valley, about 70 mi (115 km) 
north of New York City. The first person appointed to the Vassar faculty 
was the astronomer Maria Mitchell, in 1865. Vassar adopted coeducation 
in 1969. However, immediately following World War II, Vassar accepted a 
very small number of male students on the G.I. Bill. Because Vassar's charter 
prohibited male matriculants, the graduates were given diplomas via the 
University of the State of New York. These were reissued under the Vassar 
title after the school formally became co-educational.[8] The formal decision 
to become co-ed came after its trustees declined an offer to merge with 
Yale University, its sibling institution, in the wave of mergers between 
the historically all-male colleges of the Ivy League and their Seven Sisters 
counterparts.[9] In its early years, Vassar was associated with the social 
elite of the Protestant establishment. E. Digby Baltzell writes that "upper-class 
WASP families educated their children at colleges such as Harvard, Princeton, 
Yale, and Vassar."[11] Before becoming President of the United States, 
Franklin Delano Roosevelt was a Trustee.[12] Roughly 2,450 students attend 
Vassar, and 98% live on campus.[4] About 60% come from public high schools, 
and 40% come from private schools (both independent and religious).[4] 
Vassar is currently 56% women and 44% men, at national average for national 
liberal arts colleges.[13] Students are taught by more than 290 faculty 
members, virtually all holding the doctorate degree or its equivalent.[4] 
The student-faculty ratio is 8:1, average class size, 17.[4] In recent 
freshman classes, students of color constituted 32–38% of matriculants.[4] 
International students from over 60 countries make up 8-10% of the student 
body.[4] In May 2007, in keeping with its commitment to diverse and equitable 
education, Vassar returned to a need-blind admissions policy wherein students 
are admitted by their academic and personal qualities, without regard to 
financial status. Vassar president Frances D. Fergusson served for two 
decades. She retired in the spring of 2006, and was succeeded by Catharine 
Bond Hill, former provost at Williams College. Vassar's campus, also an 
arboretum,[14] is 1,000 acres (400 ha) and has more than 100 buildings, 
ranging in style from Collegiate Gothic to International, with several 
buildings of architectural interest. At the center of campus stands Main 
Building, one of the best examples of Second Empire architecture in the 
United States. When it was opened, Main Building was the largest building 
in the U.S. in terms of floor space. formerly housed the entire college, 
including classrooms, dormitories, museum, library, and dining halls.[10][15] 
The building was designed by Smithsonian architect James Renwick Jr. and 
was completed in 1865. It was preceded on campus by the original observatory. 
Both buildings are National Historic Landmarks. Rombout House was purchased 
by the college in 1915 and added to the National Register of Historic Places 
in 1982.[16][17] Many original brick buildings are scattered throughout 
the campus, but there are also several modern and contemporary structures 
of architectural interest. Ferry House, a student cooperative, was designed 
by Marcel Breuer in 1951. Noyes House was designed by Finnish-American 
architect Eero Saarinen. A good example of an attempt to use passive solar 
design can be seen in the Seeley G. Mudd Chemistry Building by Perry Dean 
Rogers. More recently, New Haven architect César Pelli was asked to design 
the Lehman Loeb Art Center, which was completed in the early 1990s. In 
2003, Pelli also worked on the renovation of Main Building Lobby and the 
conversion of the Avery Hall theater into the $25 million Vogelstein Center 
for Drama and Film, which preserved the original 1860s facade but was an 
entirely new structure. Vassar is home to one of the largest undergraduate 
library collections in the U.S. The library collection today – which actually 
encompasses eight libraries at Vassar – contains about 1 million volumes 
and 7,500 serial, periodical and newspaper titles, as well as an extensive 
collection of microfilm and microfiche, with special collections of Ellen 
Swallow Richards, Albert Einstein, Mary McCarthy, and Elizabeth Bishop.[18][19] 
Vassar has been a Federal Depository library for selected U.S. Government 
documents since 1943 and currently receives approximately 25% of the titles 
available through the Federal Depository Program.[20] Since 1988, Vassar 
has been a New York State Reference Center, part of the New York Depository 
Program. The library also selectively purchases United Nations documents. 
A major renovation to Thompson Library was completed in 2001. The interior 
and exterior of the Van Ingen Art Library was renovated from June 2008 
– May 2009 in an effort to restore its original design and appearance. 
This was the library's first major renovation since its construction in 
1937.[21] Vassar College was the first college in the United States to 
be founded with a full-scale museum as part of its original plan. Matthew 
Vassar was known for declaring that "art should stand boldly forth as an 
educational force". The art collection at Vassar dates to the founding 
of the College, when Vassar provided an extensive collection of Hudson 
River School paintings to be displayed in the Main Building. Referred to 
as the Magoon Collection, it continues to be one of the best in the nation 
for Hudson River School paintings. One of the largest U.S. college or university 
art museums, the Frances Lehman Loeb Gallery displays a selection of Vassar's 
18,000 articles of art in the building designed by Cesar Pelli. Today, 
the gallery's collection displays art from the ancient world up through 
contemporary works. The collection includes work by European masters such 
as Brueghel, Gustave Doré, Picasso, Balthus, Bacon, Vuillard, Cézanne, 
Braque and Bonnard, as well as examples from leading twentieth-century 
American painters Jackson Pollock, Agnes Martin, Mark Rothko, Marsden Hartley, 
Georgia O'Keeffe, Charles Sheeler, and Ben Shahn. The Loeb's works on paper 
represent a major collection in the United States, with prints by Rembrandt 
(including important impressions of the "Hundred Guilder Print" and the 
"Three Trees") and Dürer as well as photographs by Cindy Sherman, Diane 
Arbus, and others. Students at the college can act as liaisons between 
the art center and the wider college community through work on the Student 
Committee of the Frances Lehman Loeb Art Center, to which incoming freshman 
can apply. In 2011, Vassar embarked on a $120 million project to improve 
science facilities at the college, centering on the construction of a new 
$90 million Bridge for Laboratory Sciences.[22] The project will include 
renovations of Olmsted Hall of Biological Sciences, New England Building 
and Sanders Physics Building as well as the construction of a new Integrated 
Science Center, a bridge building that will connect to Olmsted Hall and 
cross over the Fonteyn Kill. It is intended both to modernize and to support 
a collaborative and cross-disciplinary science community. The bridge building 
was completed January 2016. Davison, one of Vassar's nine residence houses, 
was renovated during the 2008–2009 school year. The dorm went offline for 
that year and its residents were absorbed into the college's remaining 
residence houses.[23] This is the second dorm to be renovated as part of 
the school's master plan to renovate all dorms, following Jewett a few 
years earlier. Lathrop was scheduled to be closed and renovated during 
the 2010–2011 school year, but complete renovation was cancelled due to 
the economic downturn, with a number of improvements phased-in instead. 
Improvements were also made to Josselyn in 2011.[24] Vassar confers a Bachelor 
of Arts (BA) degree in more than 50 majors, including the Independent Major, 
in which a student may design a major, as well as various interdisciplinary 
and multidisciplinary fields of study. Students also participate in such 
programs as the Self-Instructional Language Program (SILP) which offers 
courses in Hindi, Irish/Gaelic, Korean, Portuguese, Swahili, Swedish, Turkish, 
and Yiddish. Vassar has a flexible curriculum intended to promote breadth 
in studies. While each field of study has specific requirements for majors, 
the only universal requirements for graduation are proficiency in a foreign 
language, a quantitative course, and a freshman writing course. Students 
are also strongly encouraged to study abroad, which they typically do during 
one or two semesters of their junior year. Students (usually juniors) may 
apply for a year or a semester away either in the U.S. or abroad. Vassar 
sponsors programs in China, England, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, 
Italy, Turkey, Mexico, Morocco, Spain and Russia; students may also join 
preapproved programs offered by other colleges. Students may also apply 
for approved programs at various U.S. institutions, including the historically 
Black colleges and members of the Twelve College Exchange. All classes 
are taught by members of the faculty, and there are no graduate students 
or teachers' assistants. The most popular majors, in terms of sheer numbers, 
are English, political science, psychology, economics and biology.[13] 
Vassar also offers a variety of correlate sequences, or minors, for intensive 
study in many disciplines. For the Class of 2020 (enrolling fall 2016), 
Vassar received 7,306 applications and accepted 1,964 (26.9%).[25] In terms 
of class rank, 68% of enrolled freshmen were in the top 10% of their high 
school classes; 90% ranked in the top quarter. The median SAT scores for 
the Class of 2020 were 710 for critical reading, 700 for math, and 710 
for writing, while the middle 50% range of SAT scores was 1360-1480 for 
critical reading and math only, and 2040-2220 for all scores. The median 
ACT composite score was 32; the middle 50% range was 30-33.[25] The incoming 
Class of 2019 was 57% female, 43% male, and included students from 44 states, 
Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and 30 foreign countries (international 
students were 15.9% of enrolled freshmen). Students of color (including 
non-citizens) made up 41.1% of the class. Need-based financial aid was 
provided to 62% of freshman by Vassar.[25] The 2017 annual ranking of U.S. 
News & World Report categorizes Vassar as 'most selective' and rates it 
tied for the 12th best liberal arts college in the nation, 1st for "Best 
Colleges for Veterans" and 7th for "Best Value".[33] It also ranked Vassar 
tied for highest economic diversity as measured by low-income students 
receiving federal Pell Grants.[34] In its 2013 edition, The Princeton Review 
gave Vassar an admissions selectivity rating of 98 out of 99 and an academic 
rating of 97.[35] In its 2014 list of private colleges and universities 
in terms of best value, The Princeton Review ranked Vassar 7th.[36] In 
2016, Forbes rated Vassar 33rd overall in its America's Top Colleges ranking, 
which includes 650 military academies, national universities, and liberal 
arts colleges and 15th among liberal arts colleges.[37] Kiplinger's Personal 
Finance places Vassar 14th in its 2016 ranking of best value liberal arts 
colleges in the United States.[38] Vassar was ranked by Newsweek in 2011 
as the 25th best school in the nation for the most highly decorated students 
(as measured by the success of alumni in winning Rhodes, Marshall, Truman, 
Gates-Cambridge, and Fulbright Scholarships) and 13th among national liberal 
arts colleges,[39] and as 10th in the nation for schools offering an exceptional 
artistic atmosphere (4th among liberal arts colleges).[40] In an article 
in The Christian Science Monitor on the subject, Vassar president Catharine 
Bond Hill argued that rankings "will always be limited in what they can 
tell consumers. Part of higher education's role about the rankings should 
be to remind students and their families that these are only one piece 
of information that they should take into account in deciding where to 
go to college. Intangibles will and should play a role in these decisions, 
but that doesn't mean we shouldn't also look at the tangibles".[41] Over 
half of Vassar graduates intend to pursue advanced study within five years 
of graduation including about one fifth immediately post-graduation.[42] 
Of the seniors who applied to medical school, 76% were accepted; to law 
school, 86% were accepted.[42] Vassar offers a database of well over 30,000 
alumni where students may seek career advice and opportunities. The Founder's 
Day Festival is an annual campus festival at Vassar College that usually 
takes place in late April or early May. It started as a surprise birthday 
party for college founder Matthew Vassar and evolved into an annual celebration.[43] 
Originally, Founder's Day was a spontaneous event consisting of lectures 
but was soon replaced with plays, pageants, and more recreational activities. 
Circus and fair activities followed, with the eventual addition of the 
modern day music events over the course of two days. More recently themes 
have been added, including Alice in Wonderland,[44] Dinosaurs,[45] Vintage 
1800s Vassar,[46] Nickelodeon, Nintendo, and Candyland.[46] Within the 
past five years, artists at Founder's Day have included The Walkmen, Edan, 
DJ /rupture, Odd Nosdam, Jel,[47] Toro y Moi,[48] and Odesza.[49] In March 
2016, in a 15-2 vote, the Vassar Student Association (VSA) passed a resolution 
calling for the support of the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement 
and the boycott of Israel.[57][58] Vassar, known athletically as the Brewers, 
competes in Division III of the NCAA, as a member of the Liberty League. 
The nickname originates from the college's founder and namesake Matthew 
Vassar, whose family ran a brewery in Poughkeepsie and would later amass 
a sizable fortune in the industry. Vassar College currently offers the 
following varsity athletics: basketball, baseball, cross-country, fencing, 
field hockey (women only), golf (women only), lacrosse, rowing, rugby, 
soccer, squash, swimming/diving, tennis, track, and volleyball. Club sports 
include Ultimate (men's and women's), equestrian team (competes in IHSA), 
polo team (USPA), cycling team (competes in ECCC), Quidditch, and co-ed 
U.S. Figure Skating synchronized skating team. Basketball plays in Vassar's 
new Athletics and Fitness Center. Volleyball plays in Kenyon Hall, reopened 
in 2006. Soccer, baseball, field hockey and lacrosse all play at the Prentiss 
Fields, which have been completely renovated in 2007 to feature a lighted 
turf, four grass fields, a baseball field and a track surrounding the turf. 
Also in 2007, a varsity weight room was opened in the basement of Kenyon 
Hall, exclusively for the training of varsity athletes. In 2008, the Vassar 
men's volleyball team made the school's first appearance in a national 
championship game, beating UC Santa Cruz 3–0 in the semifinal before falling 
to Springfield in the championship game.[59] In 2007, the Vassar cycling 
team hosted the Eastern Collegiate Cycling Championship in Poughkeepsie 
and New Paltz, New York. The competition included a 100-mile (160 km) road 
race over the Shawangunk Mountains in New Paltz as well as a Criterium 
in Poughkeepsie just blocks from the school's campus.[60] In a controversial 
move, on November 5, 2009, the Athletics Department decided the men's and 
women's rowing team would transition over a two-year period from a varsity 
to a club sport as a cost-saving measure.[61] Notable Vassar alumni include 
their first graduate of African ancestry Anita Florence Hemmings (1897), 
notable education and prison reform advocate Julia Tutwiler, founder of 
the United Service Organizations (USO) Mary Ingraham (1908), artist Ruth 
Starr Rose (1910), poet Edna St. Vincent Millay (1917), computer pioneer 
Grace Hopper (1928), critic and novelist Mary McCarthy (1933), poet Elizabeth 
Bishop (1934), physician Beatrix Hamburg (1944), Art Historian Linda Nochlin 
(1951), politician and activist Frances Farenthold, Zagat Survey co-founder 
Nina Zagat (1963), physician and National Institutes of Health director 
Bernadine P. Healy (1965), Nickelodeon President and Oxygen Media founder 
and CEO Geraldine Laybourne (1969), Emmy award-winning executive producer 
of Masterpiece on PBS Rebecca Eaton (1969), actress Meryl Streep (1971), 
Pulitzer Prize–winning fiction writer Jane Smiley (1971), CBS News Chief 
White House Correspondent Chip Reid (1977), former World Bank CFO and Undersecretary 
of the Treasury for Domestic Finance Jeffrey Goldstein (1977), The New 
Yorker Magazine Science Writer Michael Specter (1977), Cooper Union President 
Jamshed Bharucha (1978), MSNBC President Phil Griffin (1979), astrophysicist 
and MacArthur Award Fellow John Carlstrom (1981), President of Lawrence 
University of Wisconsin Mark Burstein (1984), actress Lisa Kudrow (1985), 
actress Hope Davis (1986), journalist Evan Wright (1988), ABC News Chief 
White House Correspondent Jonathan Karl (1990), writer-director Noah Baumbach 
(1991), Flickr founder Caterina Fake (1991), Shine Limited CEO and Chairman 
Elisabeth Murdoch (1992), Pulitzer Prize–winning journalist and Wall Street 
Journal reporter Alexandra Berzon (2001), and screenwriter and director 
Jonás Cuarón (2005). Notable attendees who did not graduate from Vassar 
include First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, Washington Post publisher 
Katharine Graham, president of the Ford Foundation Susan Berresford, actresses 
Jane Fonda and Anne Hathaway, actor Justin Long, member of the Beastie 
Boys Mike D, musician Mark Ronson, and professional chef and television 
personality Anthony Bourdain. Notable Vassar faculty include pioneering 
female astronomer Maria Mitchell, computer scientist Grace Hopper, writer 
Paul Russell, composer Richard Edward Wilson, philosophers Uma Narayan 
and Mitchell Miller, political scientist Peter Stillman, and writer Kiese 
Laymon. Grace Hopper, inventor of the first compiler for a computer programming 
language. Meryl Streep, Academy Award-winning actress. Lisa Kudrow, Emmy 
Award-winning actress. Shakespeare Garden Interior of the Vassar Chapel 
Men's rowing team Davison House Class of 1951 Observatory Sunset Lake Cushing 
House Taylor Hall main gate Noyes House Looking up Sunset Hill towards 
Sanders Physics The preserved facade of Avery Hall on the Vogelstein Center 
for Drama and Film Ferry Cooperative House The Fonteyn Kill Main Building 
in 2007, seen from near the entrance to campus Coordinates: 41°41′12.72″N 
73°53′42.68″W﻿ / ﻿41.6868667°N 73.8951889°W﻿ / 41.6868667; -73.8951889 
