Vaughan (/vɔːn/ VAWN; 2011 population 288,301) is a city in Ontario, Canada. 
It is within the region of York, just north of Toronto. Vaughan was the 
fastest-growing municipality in Canada between 1996 and 2006, achieving 
a population growth rate of 80.2% according to Statistics Canada[2] having 
nearly doubled in population since 1991. It is the fifth-largest city in 
the Greater Toronto Area, and the 17th largest city in Canada. In the late 
pre-contact period, the Huron-Wendat people populated what is today Vaughan. 
The Skandatut ancestral Huron village overlooked the east branch of the 
Humber River (Pinevalley Drive) and was once home to approximately 2000 
Huron in the sixteenth century.[3] The site is located close to a Huron 
ossuary (mass grave) uncovered in Kleinburg in 1970, and one kilometre 
north of the Seed-Barker Huron site[4] The first European to pass through 
Vaughan was the French explorer Étienne Brûlé, who traversed the Humber 
Trail in 1615. However, it was not until the townships were created in 
1792 that Vaughan began to see any settlements, as it was considered to 
be extremely remote and the lack of roads through the region made travel 
difficult. The township was named after Benjamin Vaughan, a British commissioner 
who signed a peace treaty with the United States in 1783. Despite the hardships 
of pioneer life, settlers came to Vaughan in considerable numbers. The 
population grew from 19 men, 5 women, and 30 children in 1800 to 4,300 
in 1840. The first people to arrive were mainly Pennsylvania Germans, with 
a smaller number of families of English descent and a group of French Royalists 
being represented. This migration from the United States was by 1814 superseded 
by an influx of immigrants from Britain. While many of their predecessors 
had been agriculturalists, the newer immigrants proved to be highly skilled 
tradespeople, which would prove useful for a growing community. Around 
the facilities established by this group arose a number of hamlets, the 
oldest of which was Thornhill, which witnessed the construction of a saw-mill 
in 1801, a grist mill in 1815, and boasted a population of 300 by 1836. 
Other such enclaves included Kleinburg, Coleraine, Maple, Richmond Hill, 
Teston, Claireville, Pine Grove, Carrville, Patterson, Burlington, Concord, 
Edgeley, Fisherville, Elder's Mills, Elgin Mills, Jefferson, Nashville, 
Purpleville, Richvale, Sherwood, Langstaff, Vellore, and Burwick (Woodbridge). 
Vaughan changed relatively little in its early history, from the 1840s 
when the number of inhabitants stood at 4,300 to 1935 when it had 4,873 
residents. However, World War II sparked an influx of immigration, and 
by 1960, the population stood at 15,957. As well, the ethno-cultural composition 
of the area began to change with the arrival of different groups such as 
Italians, Jews and Eastern Europeans. Incorporated in 1850 as Vaughan Township, 
a municipal government was established. Vaughan Road was a rural road constructed 
in 1850 that linked Vaughan Township with Toronto, though this street's 
current alignment is much shorter and serves only much of the eastern half 
of the former city of York.[5] In 1971, the new regional government of 
York Region was established, acquiring policing and welfare services from 
the communities it served; simultaneously, the township merged with the 
Village of Woodbridge to form the Town of Vaughan. In 1991, it officially 
changed its legal status to City of Vaughan.[6] An F2 tornado tore through 
the city of Vaughan during the Southern Ontario Tornado Outbreak on August 
20, 2009. Premier Dalton McGuinty and Mayor Linda Jackson toured the destruction 
the next day and reported 200 homes in critical shape and as many as 600 
additional homes likely to be demolished. The tornado also ripped up trees, 
flipped cars, and left thousands of people without power. Vaughan declared 
a state of emergency because of the widespread damage.[7][8] One man injured 
in the storm suffered a heart attack the following morning.[9] Vaughan 
City Council has nine members: the mayor, three regional councillors, and 
five local councillors. The mayor, elected at large, is the head of Vaughan 
council and a representative on York Region Council. The three regional 
councillors are elected to represent Vaughan at both local and regional 
levels of government. Five local councillors are also elected, one from 
each of Vaughan's five wards, to represent those wards on Vaughan Council. 
City councillors meet at the Civic Centre, located in the community of 
Maple. The City's new City Hall was opened on September 25, 2011. The building 
is named in memory of late Mayor Lorna Jackson. The new Civic Centre is 
one of the first in Canada to conform to a LEED Gold Standard, the second 
highest environmental classification available.[10] Vaughan is the first 
municipality in Ontario to have a Youth City Councillor. The youth city 
councillor is appointed as a non-voting member of Council every six months 
to represent the youth of Vaughan. Vaughan council originally rejected 
the proposal of a youth councillor but, after the Vaughan Youth Cabinet 
amended its proposal, Council accepted the recommendation.[11] Following 
the death of Mayor Lorna Jackson in 2002, Michael Di Biase was appointed 
mayor by Vaughan council by virtue of his position as one of two regional 
councillors representing Vaughan, Joyce Frustaglio was the other regional 
councillor. Gino Rosati, a Vaughan local councillor, was subsequently appointed 
by Vaughan Council to fill Di Biase’s position as regional councillor and 
a by-election was held to fill Rosati’s local councillor’s position which 
was won by Linda Jackson, the daughter of Mayor Jackson. Di Biase first 
became involved in the city's politics in 1985, when he was elected as 
a local councillor in 1985. Di Biase retained the mayorship in the 2003 
municipal clection, defeating challenger Robert Craig. In the municipal 
election on November 13, 2006, Di Biase was narrowly defeated by Linda 
Jackson, who was sworn in as mayor on December 4, 2006. On June 18, 2008, 
an audit of Jackson's 2006 campaign finances found that the politician 
exceeded her legal spending limit of $120,419 by at least $12,356, or 10 
per cent. The auditors, LECG Canada Ltd., say that amount could almost 
double if what they believed to be unreported contributions in kind at 
various election events – but couldn't prove – are later verified.[12] 
They also found other apparent contraventions of the Canada Elections Act, 
including at least five instances where associated companies made donations 
that exceeded the normal $750 donation limit per company. On June 24, 2008, 
Vaughan Council voted unanimously to hire a special prosecutor to consider 
laying charges against Mayor Linda Jackson under the Municipal Elections 
Act in reaction to the auditors' report. Council hired Timothy Wilkin, 
"an expert in municipal law" to decide what (if any) charges are to be 
laid.[13] If Jackson is charged and found guilty, she would face punishments 
ranging from fines to removal from office. Subsequently, an audit was conducted 
on former Mayor Di Biase's 2006 election campaign funds. This exposed 27 
contraventions under the Elections Act, along with a $155,000 anonymous 
cash payment made to his lawyer to cover his legal fees. Di Biase has refused 
to disclose who made this payment.[14] On 25 October 2010, longtime MP 
Maurizio Bevilacqua was elected mayor and he assumed office in December 
2010. Vaughan is bounded by Caledon and Brampton to the west, King and 
Richmond Hill to the north, Markham and Richmond Hill to the east, and 
Toronto, to the south. It is located approximately 25 minutes from Downtown 
Toronto. Vaughan like much of the Greater Toronto Area features a continental 
climate and has four distinct seasons. Vaughan is the largest city in Canada 
without a hospital within its city boundaries.[16] The nearest full-service 
hospital facilities are Humber River Regional Hospital, to the south in 
Toronto, Brampton Civic Hospital, to the west in Brampton, and Mackenzie 
Richmond Hill Hospital to the east in Richmond Hill. Mackenzie Vaughan 
Hospital is under construction along Major Mackenzie Drive (between Highway 
400 and Jane Street)[17] which would serve Vaughan. Its planning stage 
began in 2007.[18] The provincial government of Ontario approved construction 
of the hospital in July 2011, and a tender for bids to construct it will 
be issued in 2014 or 2015.[19] Land preparation for construction began 
in the summer of 2014.[20] The expected date of completion is 2019.[21] 
It will be part of a regional hospital system with a "single governance, 
administration and medical staff"[19] managed by Mackenzie Richmond Hill 
Hospital. There are six major communities that make up the city. They are 
commonly seen today to extend to areas far beyond their original sites 
that encompass lesser-known communities in turn. Most residents (and even 
non-residents) identify more with them then they do with the city as a 
whole. Even though Vaughan is a city, it is not listed in the phone book. 
Instead, Bell Canada still uses the original community exchanges and still 
lists them separately, resulting in local calling areas being different 
throughout the city. Vaughan is one of southern Ontario's fastest growing 
cities. According to Statistics Canada, the population grew 20.7 percent 
from 2006 to 2011.[24] Median age as of 2011 was 37.9, lower than the Ontario 
median age of 39.3.[24] Vaughan is known as having some of the highest 
concentrations of southern Europeans (notably Italians), Eastern Europeans 
(chiefly Russians) and Jewish people in Ontario, while those who are of 
British and/or Irish origin form a smaller proportion than in many other 
Southern Ontario cities. Visible minorities make up 26.6% of the population.[25] 
Vaughan has small but growing Indian, Pakistani, Hispanic, Jamaican, Vietnamese 
and Chinese populations. Residents of Vaughan are fairly religious; the 
city has the lowest number of non-affiliates in Ontario. Some 60.62% of 
the population adheres to Christianity, mostly Catholicism (46.23%). Those 
who practice non-Christian religions adhere to, in order of size, Judaism 
(15.28%), Hinduism (4.50%), Islam (4.92%), and Buddhism (2.52%). Those 
who do not have a religious affiliation account for 10.04% of the population.[26] 
According to the 2011 Census, English is the mother tongue of 45.92% of 
the residents of Vaughan. Italian is the mother tongue for 14.08% of the 
population, followed by Russian (6.52%) and Spanish (2.57%). Each of Punjabi, 
Tagalog (Filipino), Hebrew, Persian, Chinese, not otherwise specified, 
Urdu, Cantonese, and Vietnamese has a percentage ranging from 1.9% down 
to 1.4%, signifying Vaughan's high linguistic diversity.[27] York University 
in North York, Ontario lies on the Toronto side of the Toronto-Vaughan 
border. It is a major comprehensive university, with more than 43,000 students 
enrolled through 10 different faculties. There are also a number of elementary 
and high schools in Vaughan, which operate under the York Region District 
School Board and the York Catholic District School Board. There are also 
some private schools, the largest of which is the Anne & Max Tanenbaum 
Community Hebrew Academy of Toronto (TanenbaumCHAT), a Jewish day school 
serving over 600 high school students. There is also a Waldorf school, 
the Toronto Waldorf School, which offers early childhood, elementary and 
accredited high school programs. The Seed-Barker archaeological site is 
a 16th-century Iroquois village on the Humber River in Vaughan. It has 
been used as a summer school field trip site since 1976 by the Boyd archaeological 
field summer school for high school students. The school is sponsored by 
the York Region district school board in co-operation with the Royal Ontario 
Museum and the Toronto and Region Conservation Authority (TRCA). In 1895, 
a local farmer began finding Iroquoian artifacts in the area. In 1895, 
Roland Orr recognized the classic ecological features favoured by the Iroquoian 
people for their villages: floodplains along a river, an easily defensible 
plateau and nearby forests. The Iroquois used the floodplains to plant 
maize, beans and squash,:1 known as the three sisters. In the 1950s, University 
of Toronto professor Norman Emerson and the students excavated artifacts 
from the Seed-Baker site. Since 1975, more that a million artifacts were 
discovered and nineteen longhouses were excavated revealing that the village 
was occupied by the Iroquois from c. 1500 - 1550 AD.[28] [29] Kleinburg 
is home to the Cinespace Film Studios, a centre for television and motion 
picture production. Several famous movie stars are often spotted around 
Kleinburg, making it a popular tourist/gawker attraction. The popular children's 
TV show The Forest Rangers, starring Gordon Pinsent, was filmed here between 
1963 and 1965. In 2006, the movie The Sentinel was filmed at the McMichael 
