The Venezuelan Professional Baseball League or Liga Venezolana de Béisbol 
Profesional (LVBP) is the highest level baseball league in Venezuela. Baseball 
exploded in Venezuela in 1941, following the world championship in Havana. 
By then, the appearance of professional baseball in Venezuela attracted 
many ball players from the Caribbean and the United States to the country, 
showing a more integrated sport there than it was in the United States. 
This is evidenced in the hiring of stellar players like Ramón Bragaña, 
Martín Dihigo, Oscar Estrada, Cocaina Garcia, Bertrum Hunter, Roy Campanella, 
Sam Jethroe, Satchel Paige, and Roy Welmaker. On December 27, 1945, the 
owners of Cervecería Caracas (Caracas Brewery), Sabios de Vargas (Vargas 
Wisemen), Navegantes del Magallanes (Magellan Navigators), and Patriotas 
de Venezuela (Venezuelan Patriots) created the Venezuelan Professional 
Baseball League. The league was formally registered as an institution during 
January 1946, and in the same month organized its first tournament, starting 
on January 3, 1946. Sabios de Vargas, led by Daniel 'Chino' Canónico, became 
the first champion, with a record of 18 wins and 12 loses. During the first 
tournaments, games were played on Thursdays and Saturdays on the afternoons, 
and Sundays in the morning. This was the norm until Cervecería Caracas' 
park — located in the San Agustín del Norte zone of Caracas — was fitted 
with electric lights, enabling its use during night games. Thus, a game 
was added on Tuesday nights. Eventually, the tournament was changed to 
accommodate two rounds, with the top team of each round having a best-of-5 
play-off to determine the champion. On August 8, 1952, Pablo Morales and 
Oscar Prieto Ortiz purchased the Cervecería Caracas team from Martín Tovar 
Lange, as the Caracas Brewery Co. was unable to continue sponsoring the 
team and it had the highest payroll of the league. The new owners renamed 
the team as Leones del Caracas (Caracas Lions), after the full name of 
the city, Santiago de Leon de Caracas. On October 17, 1952, the 1952-1953 
tournament started, with the first game of Leones del Caracas vs. Venezuela 
BBC. Leones del Caracas would win their inaugural tournament. The next 
tournament would see the departure of the teams Sabios de Vargas and Venezuela 
BBC due to economic problems, being replaced by two teams (Gavilanes and 
Pastora) from the professional league of the Zulia State, from western 
Venezuela. In 1954 Sabios de Vargas was replaced by Santa Marta and Patriotas 
de Venezuela came back both only for that year. In 1955 a new team was 
added in the place of the departed Venezuela, named Pampero; while the 
Santa Marta BBC was moved out of Caracas, and renamed to Industriales de 
Valencia (Valencia Industrymen). The 1956-1957 tournament would see further 
changes: the Navegantes del Magallanes team was purchased by advertisers 
Joe Novas and Joe Cruz and renamed as Oriente, leaving the league made 
of Leones del Caracas, Oriente, Pampero and Industriales de Valencia. In 
1962, Los Tiburones de La Guaira (La Guaira Sharks) were brought into the 
league to replace Pampero. In 1965, the league expanded from 4 to 6 teams, 
with the addition of the teams Cardenales de Lara (Lara Cardinals) and 
Tigres de Aragua (Aragua Tigers). For the 1968-1969 tournament, the Industrymen 
left the city of Valencia and relocated to Acarigua with a new name: Los 
Llaneros. This left Valencia without a team, prompting the move of Navegantes 
del Magallanes from Caracas to Valencia, and their return to their original 
name for the 1969-1970 tournament. In 1969, Las Águilas del Zulia (Zulia 
Eagles) were brought into the league to replace Industriales de Valencia. 
The 1970s saw the first successes for Venezuelan teams outside of Venezuela 
since the amateur championships of the 1940s, with the Navegantes del Magallanes 
winning two Caribbean Series. It also saw problems for the league, in the 
form of the strike that prevented the 1973-1974 tournament, and the problems 
the Leones del Caracas and Tiburones de La Guaira had in 1975-1976 to secure 
a baseball park to play their home games. This resulted in both teams merged 
into one, and forced to move to the city of Acarigua. Also in the 1970s, 
Tigres de Aragua won the first championships for the 1960s expansion teams. 
The 1980s saw the Leones del Caracas winning five tournaments, consolidating 
their lead as the most successful team in the league. Leones del Caracas 
also went on to win three championships in a row starting in the 1979-80 
season, and their first Caribbean Series in 1982. The decade also saw success 
for the Tiburones de La Guaira, with the team winning 3 championships. 
Also in the 1980s, the Águilas del Zulia won their first two championships, 
all the way to also winning their first two Caribbean Series in 1984 and 
1989. In 1991, the league expanded from six to eight teams, with the addition 
of the Caribes de Oriente (Eastern Caribbeans), who are now the Caribes 
de Anzoátegui (Anzoátegui Caribbeans); and the Petroleros de Cabimas (Cabimas 
Oilers), who became Pastora de los Llanos (Llanos Shepherds), and from 
the 2007-08 season on, Bravos de Margarita (Margarita Braves). This led 
to a change in format, with the eight teams being organized in two divisions: 
the Eastern Division (División Oriental) with the teams Caracas, Magallanes, 
La Guaira and Oriente; and the Western Division (División Occidental) with 
the teams Zulia, Lara, Aragua and Cabimas. The first two teams from each 
division by the end of the regular season of the tournament would qualify 
to the round-robin semifinals. The format would change again some years 
later, with the addition of a wildcard team in the semifinals: the best 
placed third-place from the two divisions would accompany the other four 
teams in a round-robin semifinal. For the 2007-08 season, with the move 
of the Pastora team from the western city of Acarigua to the eastern city 
of Porlamar, the Western Division and the Eastern Division were merged 
into a single division of eight teams, with the top five teams advancing 
to the semifinals. The 2015-2016 season saw a new change in format, with 
a regular season divided in two rounds, which ranked the teams by their 
record and assigned points depending on their position in the table at 
the end of each round. The total points from both rounds are added at the 
end of the regular season, and the teams are then ranked by points. Also 
part of the format change was the introduction of a sixth team qualified 
for the semifinals, and the change of the semifinal from a round robin 
format to two phases of play-offs to the best of 7 games. In recent years, 
Tigres de Aragua has become the most dominant team of the league, winning 
the crown seven times in the last fifteen years, including three times 
in a row from the 2006-07 season to the 2008-09 season and also winning 
the Caribbean Series in 2009. The league has scheduled All Star Games most 
years, sometime featuring Criollos (Venezuelan) vs Importados (foreigners), 
Western Division vs Eastern Division or Stars vs "Stars of the Future", 
and even a Venezuela's League Stars vs. Dominican Republic's League Stars 
inter-league all star game during the 2007-2008 and 2011-2012 tournaments. 
The league houses eight teams in one single division. The tournament is 
divided into a regular season consisting of two rounds and a postseason 
consisting of two semifinal rounds and one final.[1] The regular season 
is made up of two rounds and a total of 63 games are disputed by each of 
the eight teams that made up the Venezuelan Professional Baseball League. 
Both rounds are played in a round robin format; the first consisting of 
32 games for each club and the second consisting of 31 games for each club. 
At the end of each round, points are assigned to the teams depending on 
their standings on the round as illustrated by the following table: In 
the case of a tie, the position of the teams in the table is determined 
by their head-to-head record. At the end of the second round, the total 
points from both rounds are added and the teams ranked according to that. 
The six teams with more points advance to the postseason. The postseason 
is further divided in two semifinal rounds and the final. All the series 
from the semifinal rounds and the final itself are playoff series to the 
best of 7 games, played in a single elimination format. In all of these 
single elimination series, the team with more points during the regular 
season has home advantage, playing the first two games as home club, then 
two games away, and if necessary, the fifth game is away and the last two 
games as home club. The first semifinal round has three individual series, 
and an extra game. The series match the 1st ranked team from the Regular 
Season against the 6th, the 2nd against the 5th and the 3rd against the 
4th. The winners of the three series qualify directly to the Second Semifinal 
Round. The fourth team qualified to the Second Semifinal Round comes from 
an extra wildcard game; this game is played between two of the losing teams 
from the First Semifinal Round series. To determine the teams for the extra 
game, the three losing teams are ranked according to their points in the 
regular season, and the two teams with more points advance to the extra 
game. The winner of the extra game becomes the fourth qualified team and 
doesn't have a rest day before the start of the Second Semifinal Round, 
nor home advantage, even if it has more points than the other teams. The 
second semifinal round has two individual series in single elimination 
format to the best of seven games. The three winners of the First Semifinal 
Round are ranked first to third depending on their points in the Regular 
Season, while the wildcard game winner is ranked fourth. The series match 
the 1st ranked team against the fourth, and the 2nd against the 3rd. There 
are rest days in both series after the second and fifth games. The final 
is a series in single elimination format to the best of seven games contested 
between the winners of the two Second Semifinal Round series. (+) Won the 
title as Cervecería Caracas. The team changed owners and name in 1952, 
but documents made public on October 4, 2011, state that the franchise 
official name - Caracas Baseball Club - remained constant during all sale 
transactions in 1949, 1952 and 2001. This has resulted in a change on the 
historical stats of Leones del Caracas, as reflected in the official page 
of the league.[2][3] (†) The team moved to a different city, and changed 
its name in 1968. The team disappeared by 1969, and was replaced with a 
new franchise. (‡) The team folded at the end of the 1952-53 season, and 
was replaced with a new franchise. (*) Played only in a National Championship 
Series called El Rotatorio. The Venezuelan champion moves on to the Caribbean 
Series to face the champions of the baseball leagues of the Dominican Republic, 
Puerto Rico, Mexico and Cuba. Venezuela has won the Caribbean Series seven 
times, most recently in 2009 by the Tigres de Aragua (Aragua Tigers), after 
