Vernon Fred "Vern" Rapp (May 11, 1928 – December 31, 2015) was a Major 
League Baseball manager and coach. A career minor league catcher and a 
successful skipper in the minors, Rapp had two brief tours of duty as a 
big league manager. Born in St. Louis, Missouri, Rapp signed his first 
playing contract out of high school in 1945 with his hometown St. Louis 
Cardinals. A right-handed batter and thrower, he reached the triple A level 
with the Columbus Red Birds in 1948, but never made it to the major leagues. 
After missing two seasons due to military service during the Korean War, 
Rapp was released by the Cardinals in 1955, and signed with the independent 
Charleston Senators of the American Association for the 1956 season. The 
experience provided him his first managing job, when, at age 27, he succeeded 
Danny Murtaugh as field boss of the last-place Senators. As player-manager, 
Rapp guided his club to only 19 victories in 59 games. The following season, 
Rapp joined the New York Giants organization, and batted .302 with eleven 
home runs for their triple A affiliate, the Minneapolis Millers. After 
spending 1957 with the Louisville Colonels, Rapp became a player/coach 
with the Denver Bears. Denver was a New York Yankees affiliate when he 
joined the club in 1958, and he remained with them through 1960, by which 
time they were a Detroit Tigers affiliate. During three seasons with the 
Denver Bears, he became associated with Denver owner Bob Howsam, who would 
play an influential role later in Rapp's career.[1] While managing the 
Modesto Reds in 1961 and the Denver Bears in 1976, Rapp inserted himself 
into the line-up as a pinch hitter once each season, getting a hit both 
times. He also made two pitching appearances with Modesto in 1961 without 
giving up a run. With the Arkansas Travelers in 1966, Rapp actually started 
a game, and pitched two innings. He also got a double in his only at-bat 
of the game. In 1961, Rapp became manager of the Yankees' class C affiliate, 
the Modesto Reds, and guided them to a 57–82 record. He was promoted to 
the class B Greensboro Yankees in 1962, where he managed Roy White and 
Mel Stottlemyre among other future major leaguers. After spending two years 
out of baseball, he rejoined the Cardinals in 1965 — now led by GM Howsam 
— as manager of their Class double A Tulsa Oilers and Arkansas Travelers 
affiliates. In 1969, Howsam, by now running the Cincinnati Reds, hired 
Rapp as manager of the triple A Indianapolis Indians, and in seven years 
Rapp won two American Association pennants there. He returned to Denver 
and continued his success in 1976 as manager of the Bears (by then a farm 
team of the Montreal Expos), winning both the regular season Association 
pennant and playoff championship. His success in Denver led to his hiring 
as Cardinals' manager for 1977. Rapp took over after the twelve-year reign 
of Red Schoendienst, a longtime favorite as a Redbird player and pilot. 
While the 1977 Cardinals improved by eleven games and placed third in the 
National League East, Rapp's disciplinarian, minor league style of managing 
made him very unpopular with his players,[2] particularly Al Hrabosky. 
Hrabosky was ordered to shave his trademark "Fu Manchu" mustache, which 
was part of the carefully cultivated "Mad Hungarian" persona that he felt 
helped make him an effective closer. Hrabosky later said that being beardless 
made him feel "like a soldier going to war without his rifle", and demanded 
a trade following one season without facial hair courtesy of Rapp's rule 
against it.[3] When the Cards suffered through a seven-game losing streak 
that saw their record fall to 5–11 early in the 1978 season, Rapp was fired 
April 25 following a win at Olympic Stadium against the Expos.[4] Coach 
Jack Krol succeeded him for two games, but another former Cardinal star, 
Ken Boyer, was ticketed for the permanent job. Inspired by the outpouring 
of tributes lavished on retiring Boston Red Sox star Carl Yastrzemski, 
the producers of Boston phone-in radio show The Sports Huddle on radio 
station WHDH, decided to do a satirical tribute to Rapp, who also planned 
to retire at the end of the 1983 season after five years as first-base 
coach of the Montreal Expos (1979–83).[5] On October 2, the last day of 
the regular season, they proceeded with their tongue in cheek tribute to 
Rapp, including a mock telethon in which phone callers were invited to 
pledge money to Rapp's retirement fund (a substantial sum was actually 
pledged, though no money was collected), and a song to the tune of Bye 
Bye Birdie ("Bye Bye Vern Rapp"). The program turned out to be anything 
but a spoof, though. Cardinal broadcaster Mike Shannon spoke admiringly 
of the man, and Rapp, reached by telephone in Montreal, was choked up by 
the whole affair. WHDH also conducted a telephone interview with Sheldon 
Bender, vice-president of player personnel for the Cincinnati Reds. Until 
the station called, Bender was unaware that Rapp was leaving the Expos. 
Bender suggested Rapp at a meeting the next day at which the Reds' bosses 
were discussing whether to fire Manager Russ Nixon. One thing led to another, 
and Rapp received a surprise phone call from Howsam, who had returned from 
his own retirement to try to arrest the declining fortunes of the Reds.[6] 
Bender admitted "Vern wasn't a candidate for the job until the station 
called." Rapp decided that managing the Reds was worth unretiring for, 
and accepted the job on October 5. WHDH sent Rapp the cassette recording 
of what turned out to be a most momentous broadcast.[7] The Reds were only 
a half game back of first place with a 23–22 record, when things began 
to unravel. On May 27 against the Chicago Cubs in Wrigley Field, Reds pitcher 
Mario Soto shoved third base umpire Steve Rippley for incorrectly calling 
a long foul ball down the left field line hit by Cubs third baseman Ron 
Cey a home run. After conferring, the umpires changed their decision and 
ruled it a foul ball. However, for shoving Rippley, Soto was ejected, prompting 
him to charge the field and attack Cubs coach Don Zimmer, which triggered 
a ten-minute bench-clearing brawl. The Reds won the game, completing a 
three-game sweep of the Cubs, and followed that with a two-game sweep of 
the Pittsburgh Pirates. The next day, National League president Chub Feeney 
suspended Soto five games for the incident on the 27th. The Reds lost fourteen 
of their next seventeen, and had fallen ten games back of the San Diego 
Padres when a second incident involving Soto occurred on June 16. Leading 
off the fifth inning, Soto threw several brushback pitches at Atlanta Braves 
slugger Claudell Washington, who had homered in his last at-bat. Washington 
tossed his bat in the direction of Soto, appeared to go out to retrieve 
it, but instead walked toward the mound. Umpire Lanny Harris attempted 
to restrain Washington, but was thrown to the ground. Soto used the distraction 
to punch Washington. Several of Washington's teammates attempted to hold 
Washington to the ground. While they were doing that, Soto fired the baseball 
into the crowd of players, striking Braves coach Joe Pignatano. He was 
suspended three games for this incident; Washington received a five-game 
suspension for shoving Lanny Harris.[8] Following an 8–19 month of July, 
the Reds began maneuvering to replace Rapp. On August 15, 1984, Cincinnati 
reacquired veteran Pete Rose, who had been playing for the Montreal Expos 
at the time, and immediately fired Rapp so Rose could become a player-manager.[9] 
His career MLB managerial record was 140 wins in 300 games, for a winning 
