Veterans Stadium was a multi-purpose stadium in Philadelphia, in the U.S. 
state of Pennsylvania. It was located at the northeast corner of Broad 
Street and Pattison Avenue, as part of the South Philadelphia Sports Complex. 
The listed seating capacities in 1971 were 65,358 seats for football, and 
56,371 for baseball. It hosted the Philadelphia Eagles of the National 
Football League (NFL) from 1971 to January 2003 and the Philadelphia Phillies 
of Major League Baseball from 1971 to 2003. The 1976 and 1996 Major League 
Baseball All-Star Games were held at the venue. The Vet also hosted the 
annual Army-Navy football game seventeen times, between 1980 and 2001. 
In addition to professional baseball and football, the stadium hosted other 
amateur and professional sports, large entertainment events, and other 
civic affairs. It was demolished by implosion in March 2004 after being 
replaced by the adjacent Citizens Bank Park and Lincoln Financial Field. 
A parking lot now sits on its former site. As early as 1959, Phillies owner 
Bob Carpenter proposed building a new ballpark for the Phillies on 72 acres 
(290,000 m2) adjacent to the Garden State Park Racetrack in Cherry Hill, 
New Jersey. The Phillies' then-home, Connie Mack Stadium, was starting 
to show its age (it had been built in 1909), had inadequate parking, and 
was located in a declining neighborhood. Furthermore, in 1959 alcohol sales 
at sporting events were banned in Pennsylvania but were legal in New Jersey. 
The proposed ballpark would have seated 45,000 fans, been expandable to 
60,000 and would have had 15,000 parking spaces.[4] The American League's 
Philadelphia Athletics had moved to Kansas City, Missouri after the 1954 
season and Philadelphians weren't about to lose another professional sports 
franchise. In 1964, Philadelphia voters approved a US$25-million-bond issue 
for a new stadium to serve as the home of both the Eagles (who played at 
the University of Pennsylvania's Franklin Field) and the Phillies. Because 
of cost overruns, the voters had to go to the polls again in 1967 to approve 
another $13 million. At a total cost of $60 million[clarification needed], 
it was one of the most-expensive ballparks to date.[5] The stadium was 
named by the Philadelphia City Council, in 1968, for the veterans of all 
wars. As early as December 1969, the Phillies expected that they would 
play the first month of the 1970 season at Connie Mack Stadium before moving 
to the new venue.[6] However, the opening was delayed a year because of 
a combination of bad weather and cost overruns. The stadium's design was 
nearly circular, and was known as an "octorad" design, which attempted 
to facilitate both football and baseball. Qualcomm Stadium in San Diego 
had been similarly designed. As was the case with other cities where this 
dual approach was tried (other examples include RFK Stadium in Washington, 
D.C.; Shea Stadium in New York City, the Astrodome in Houston; Atlanta–Fulton 
County Stadium in Atlanta; Busch Memorial Stadium in St. Louis; Riverfront 
Stadium in Cincinnati; and Three Rivers Stadium in Pittsburgh), the fundamentally 
different sizes and shapes of the playing fields made the stadium inadequate 
to the needs of either sport. The Phillies played their first game at the 
stadium on Saturday, April 10, 1971, beating the Montreal Expos, 4–1, before 
an audience of 55,352. Jim Bunning (named to the Baseball Hall of Fame 
in 1996) was the winning pitcher while Bill Stoneman took the loss. Entertainer 
Mike Douglas, whose daily talk show was taped in Philadelphia, sang The 
Star-Spangled Banner before the game. The emcee for the opening ceremonies 
was newly arrived Harry Kalas. Boots Day opened the game by grounding out 
to Bunning. Larry Bowa had the stadium's first hit and Don Money slugged 
the first home run.[7] As the stadium aged, its condition deteriorated. 
A hole in the wall allowed visiting teams' players to peep into the Eagles 
Cheerleaders dressing room. So many mice infested the stadium that the 
security force employed cats as mousers.[8] The final football game played 
at the Vet was the Eagles' 27–10 loss to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in the 
NFC Championship Game on January 19, 2003. The Eagles moved into Lincoln 
Financial Field in August 2003.[9] The final game ever played at the stadium 
was the afternoon of September 28, 2003, a 5-2 Phillies loss to the Atlanta 
Braves.[10] The final win was recorded by Greg Maddux of the Braves, the 
final loss by the Phils' Kevin Millwood. The final Phillies run was scored 
by Marlon Byrd at the top of the 3rd inning, and the final run altogether 
by the Braves' Andruw Jones on a double by Robert Fick (who also had the 
last hit at Tiger Stadium as a Detroit Tiger 4 years earlier) at the top 
of the 5th. The final hit at the Vet was a single by the Phills' Pat Burrell 
at the bottom of the 9th. The next batter, Chase Utley, grounded into a 
double play to end the game and the Vet. However, the ceremony that followed 
pulled at the heartstrings of the sellout crowd. Both Paul Owens, a former 
general manager, and Tug McGraw, a former pitcher, made their final public 
appearances at the park that day; later that winter both men died.[11][12] 
The last publicly broadcast words uttered in the park were by Harry Kalas 
— a veteran announcer who helped open the facility on April 10, 1971 — 
who paraphrased his trademark home run call: "And now, Veterans Stadium 
is like a 3-1 pitch to Jim Thome or Mike Schmidt. It's on a looooooong 
drive...IT'S OUTTA HERE!!!" The team moved into Citizens Bank Park in 2004, 
with the first game being played there on April 12, 2004. On March 21, 
2004, the 32-year-old stadium was imploded in 62 seconds. Frank Bardonaro, 
President of Philadelphia-based AmQuip Crane Rental Company pressed the 
"charge" button and then Nicholas T Peetros Sr., Project Manager for Driscoll/Hunt 
Construction Company pressed the "fire" button to trigger the implosion[13] 
while Greg Luzinski and the Phillie Phanatic, the Phillies' mascot, pressed 
a ceremonial plunger for the fans.[14] A parking lot for the current sporting 
facilities was constructed in 2004 and 2005 at the site. On June 6, 2005, 
the anniversary of World War II's D-Day, a plaque and monument to commemorate 
the spot where the stadium stood and a memorial for all veterans was dedicated 
by the Phillies before their game against the Arizona Diamondbacks. On 
September 28, 2005, the second anniversary of the stadium's final game, 
a historical marker commemorating where the ballpark once stood was dedicated. 
In April 2006, granite spaces marking the former locations of home plate, 
the pitcher's mound, and the three bases for baseball, as well as the goalpost 
placements for football, were added in Western Parking Lot U. The stadium 
was a complicated structure with its seating layered in seven separate 
levels. The lowest, or "100 Level", extended only part way around the structure, 
between roughly the 25-yard lines for football games and near the two dugouts 
for baseball. The "200 Level" comprised field-level boxes, and the "300 
Level" housed what were labeled "Terrace Boxes". These three levels collectively 
made up the "Lower Stands". The "400 Level" was reserved for the press 
and dignitaries; the upper level began with "500 Level" (or "loge boxes"), 
the "600 Level" (upper reserved, or individual seats), and finally, the 
700 Level (general admission for baseball). Originally, the seats were 
in shades of brown, terra cotta, orange and yellow, to look like an autumn 
day, but in 1995 and 1996, blue seats replaced the fall-hued ones. At one 
time, the stadium could seat over 71,000 people for football, but restructuring 
in the late 1980s brought capacity down to around 66,000. The stadium was 
harshly criticized by baseball purists. Even by multi-purpose-stadium standards, 
the upper deck was exceptionally high, and many of the seats in that area 
were so far from the field that it was difficult to see the game without 
binoculars. Like most of its contemporaries, foul territory was quite roomy. 
Approximately 70% of the seats were in foul territory, adding to the stadium's 
cavernous feel. There was no dirt in the infield except for sliding pits 
around the bases. In the autumn, the football markings were clearly visible 
in the spacious outfield area. Although the stadium's size enabled the 
Phillies to shatter previous attendance records, during the years the Phillies 
were not doing as well, even crowds of 35,000 looked sparse. The stadium 
had been known for providing both the Eagles and the Phillies with great 
home-field advantage. In particular, the acoustics greatly enhanced the 
crowd noise on the field, making it nearly impossible for opposing teams 
to hear one another. The "700 Level" was well known for being home to the 
rowdiest fans at Philadelphia Eagles games, and to a lesser extent, Philadelphia 
Phillies games. In his book If Football's a Religion, Why Don't We Have 
a Prayer?,[15] Jereé Longman described the 700 Level as having a reputation 
for "hostile taunting, fighting, public urination and general strangeness." 
Due to an improvement in facilities, there is no equivalent in either Lincoln 
Financial Field or Citizens Bank Park. The name has also been the inspiration 
for websites relating to Philadelphia sports, as well as a weekly "Letters 
to the Editor" section in the Sunday Sports pages of The Philadelphia Inquirer. 
The field's surface, originally composed of AstroTurf, contained many gaps 
and uneven patches. In several places, seams were clearly visible, giving 
it the nickname "Field of Seams". It perennially drew the ranking of the 
"NFL's worst field" in player surveys conducted by the NFL Players Association, 
and visiting players often fell prey to the treacherous conditions resulting 
in numerous injuries.[16] The NFLPA reportedly threatened to sue the city 
for the poor conditions, and many sports agents told the Eagles not to 
even consider signing or drafting their clients. The Eagles, for their 
part, complained to the city on numerous occasions about the conditions 
at the stadium. Baseball players also complained about the surface. It 
was much harder than other AstroTurf surfaces, and the shock of running 
on it often caused back pain. Two of the most-publicized injuries blamed 
on the playing surface occurred exactly six years apart. On October 10, 
1993, Chicago Bears receiver Wendell Davis had his cleat get caught in 
a seam while running a simple pass route. He tore both of his patella tendons, 
ending his career.[17] On October 10, 1999, Dallas Cowboys wide receiver 
Michael Irvin suffered a neck injury that led to his premature retirement. 
(The previously winless Eagles rallied from a 10–0 deficit and won 13–10.) 
In 2001, the original AstroTurf was eventually replaced by a new surface, 
NexTurf. It was far softer, and reportedly much easier on the knees.[18] 
However, the city crew that installed the new turf reportedly did not install 
it properly, resulting in seams being visible in several places. The first 
football game on the new turf was scheduled to take place on August 13, 
2001, when the Eagles were to play the Baltimore Ravens in a preseason 
game. However, Ravens coach Brian Billick refused to let the Ravens take 
the field for warm-ups when he discovered a trench around an area where 
third base was covered up by a NexTurf cutout. City crews unsuccessfully 
tried to fix the problem, forcing the game to be canceled. Later, players 
from both teams reported that they sank into the turf in locations near 
the infield cutouts. Team president Joe Banner was irate after the game, 
calling the stadium's conditions "absolutely unacceptable" and "an embarrassment 
to the city of Philadelphia."[19] City officials, however, promised that 
the stadium would be suitable for play when the regular season started. 
The problem was caused by heavy rain over the weekend prior to the game, 
which made the dirt in the sliding pits and pitcher's mound so soft that 
the cutouts covering them in the football configuration became mushy and 
uneven. Even when new dirt was shoveled on top, it quickly became just 
as saturated as the old dirt. The problem was solved by using asphalt hot 
mix, which allowed for a solid, level playing surface, but required a jackhammer 
for removal whenever the stadium was converted from football back to baseball 
(between August and October of each year). Fans who attended games in the 
stadium for a football game gained a reputation of being among the most 
vociferous in sports, especially those in the notorious 700 Level, the 
highest seating level in the stadium prior to the construction of luxury 
skyboxes behind that seating area. The stadium became famous for the rowdiness 
of Eagles fans, although it was not the site of the incident in which fans 
booed Santa Claus during a halftime show. (The Santa Claus incident occurred 
on December 15, 1968, at Franklin Field, the Eagles' home stadium at the 
time.[20]) One of the more well-known examples of the fans' behavior was 
during the 1989 season at a follow-up game to what many called the "Bounty 
Bowl". On Thanksgiving Day, November 23, 1989, the Eagles had defeated 
the Dallas Cowboys at Texas Stadium, 27-0.[21] In that game, Cowboys placekicker 
Luis Zendejas suffered a concussion during a rough block by linebacker 
Jessie Small after a kickoff. After the game, Cowboys rookie head coach 
Jimmy Johnson commented that Eagles coach Buddy Ryan instituted a bounty 
on Zendejas and Cowboys quarterback Troy Aikman. Two weeks later, on December 
10, they played the rematch dubbed "Bounty Bowl II" at the stadium which 
the Eagles won 20-10.[22] The stadium seats were covered with snow in the 
stands. The volatile mix of beer, the "bounty" and the intense hatred for 
"America's Team" (who were 1–15 that season) led to fans throwing snowballs 
at Dallas players and coaches.[23] Beer sales were banned after that incident 
for two games. A similar incident in 1995 at Giants Stadium during a nationally 
telecast San Diego Chargers–New York Giants game[24] led the NFL to rule 
that seating areas must be cleared of snow within a certain time period 
before kickoff. The Eagles fans' behavior during a Monday Night Football 
loss[25] to the San Francisco 49ers in 1997 and a 34-0 loss to Dallas a 
year later[26] was such that the City of Philadelphia assigned a Municipal 
Court Judge, Seamus McCaffrey, to the stadium on game days to deal with 
fans removed from the stands in what was referred to as "Eagles Court".[8] 
Two years later, fans threw D-Cell batteries at St. Louis Cardinals outfielder 
J. D. Drew after he spurned the Phillies' offer to play with them, and 
wound up going back into the draft and picked by the Cardinals.[27] The 
Liberty Bell Classic, Philadelphia Division I college baseball tournament, 
was played at the stadium from its inception in 1992 through 2003. The 
original eight schools were: In the first championship game in 1992, Delaware 
defeated Villanova 6-2.[44] The stadium hosted the 1998 Atlantic 10 Conference 
Baseball Tournament, won by Fordham.[45] In November 1987, the new owners 
of the Phillies AAA franchise, the Maine Guides, considered playing the 
1988 season at the Vet because Lackawanna County Stadium would not be ready 
until the 1989 season. The team would have had to play 12:35pm day games 
when the Phillies had night games scheduled at the Vet.[46] Ownership elected 
to remain in Old Orchard Beach for 1988, renamed the club the 'Maine Phillies', 
and moved to Moosic, Pennsylvania in 1989 as the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre 
Red Barons. The Eastern League Trenton Thunder played two home games at 
the stadium in April 1994. The Thunder beat the Canton–Akron Indians, 10-9, 
in front of 483 fans on April 20, 1994, and won 9-3 on April 21. Future 
Phillies broadcaster Tom McCarthy was in the booth for the Thunder during 
these two games.[47] The stadium was the home field for the Philadelphia 
Atoms and the Philadelphia Fury, both North American Soccer League teams. 
The Fury drew 18,191 fans for their April 1, 1978, opener at the stadium 
which they lost 3-0 to the Washington Diplomats. The Fury averaged 8,279 
per-match in 1978 NASL, 5,624 per-match in 1979 NASL, and 4,778 in the 
1980 NASL seasons. The club was moved to Montreal in 1981 NASL season.[48] 
The stadium hosted an exhibition match on August 2, 1991, between the U.S. 
National Team and English professional soccer club Sheffield Wednesday. 
John Harkes played for Wednesday, the first American to play in the English 
Premier League. 44,261 fans saw the U.S. score two second-half goals to 
defeat Sheffield Wednesday 2-0.[49] Philadelphia established a bid committee 
to host matches for the 1994 World Cup which was to be played in the United 
States. Phillies president Bill Giles was on the Philadelphia bid committee 
and hoped to use Veterans Stadium for games. In addition to the challenge 
of installing a natural grass field for the games, FIFA would have required 
the Phillies to vacate the stadium for a month to allow for sufficient 
preparation time prior to the matches. Giles could only offer 17-days.[50] 
Of the nine venues eventually chosen to host matches, not one was home 
to a professional baseball club. Veterans Stadium hosted Philadelphia's 
City Title high-school football championship game from 1973 to 1977 and 
in 1979. The series was suspended in 1980.[51] With the entry of the Philadelphia 
Catholic League into what is now PIAA District XII (which was formed when 
the Public League joined the PIAA in 2002), the "City Title Game" was restored 
in 2008. The only professional wrestling event held in Veterans Stadium 
was National Wrestling Alliance/Jim Crockett Promotions "Great American 
Bash" on July 1, 1986, with an attendance of 10,900. The event was the 
start of a 14-city summer tour. The stadium has hosted many stadium concerts, 
by famous artists of many different genres. The venue also played host 
to religious events including annual Jehovah's Witnesses conventions, which 
was open to the public each year it took place. It also played host to 
a Billy Graham crusade in 1992. Home plate at Veterans Stadium, home to 
the Philadelphia Phillies for thirty-three seasons, is remembered with 
this granite and bronze marker in the parking lot near Citizens Bank Park. 
(2006) Veterans Stadium's goalpost, used by the Philadelphia Eagles for 
thirty-two seasons, is marked in the same parking lot. (2011) Veterans 
Stadium's pitching mound is marked. (2011) A brief history of how the stadium 
was named and a tribute to veterans of all wars is on display outside where 
the stadium stood. (2006) The historic marker shows the stadium's major 
moments. (2007) Dedication plaque that once was attached to The Vet. (2007) 
