The Veterans Committee was the popular name of the National Baseball Hall 
of Fame Committee to Consider Managers, Umpires, Executives and Long-Retired 
Players;[1] a former voting committee of the U.S. Baseball Hall of Fame 
that provided an opportunity for Hall of Fame enshrinement to all individuals 
who are eligible for induction but ineligible for consideration by the 
Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA). The term "Veterans Committee" 
(was composed of four committees of baseball veterans) is taken from the 
body's former official name: National Baseball Hall of Fame Committee on 
Baseball Veterans (1953). In July 2010, the Veterans Committee name was 
changed by the Hall of Fame Board of Directors and its name was no longer 
officially used by the Hall of Fame, which called three new 16-member voting 
committees by era: the Expansion Era Committee (1973–present), the Golden 
Era Committee (1947–1972), and the Pre-Integration Era Committee (1876–1946) 
– each, "The Committee"[2][3][4][5] (the term "Veterans Committee" is still 
being used by some sports media).[6] The three committees met on a rotating 
cycle once every three years to elect candidates from each era to the Hall 
of Fame that have been "identified" by a BBWAA-appointed "Screening Committee" 
named the "Historical Overview Committee" (10-12 representatives; BBWAA 
members). Beginning in 2010, 2011, and 2012, the three separate era committees 
had been responsible for considering a total of thirty-two candidates from 
three eras in the following categories: Managers, umpires, executives (includes 
team owners, general managers, and major league officials), and long-retired 
players. In July 2016, however, the Hall of Fame announced a restructuring 
of the timeframes to be considered, with a much greater emphasis on modern 
eras: Today's Game (1987–present), Modern Baseball (1970–1987), Golden 
Days (1950–1969), and Early Baseball (1871–1949). Those major league players, 
managers, umpires and executives who excelled before 1950, as well Negro 
Leagues stars, will still have an opportunity to have their careers reviewed, 
but with less frequency.[7] The Veterans Committee can be traced back to 
1939 when Commissioner Landis formed the Old-Timers Committee to put players 
from the 19th century in the Hall of Fame. In 1939, the committee selected 
five players. In 1944, after Landis' death, they put him in the Hall. After 
Landis, they put twenty-three additional players in the Hall. In 1953, 
the Veterans Committee met for the first time under the name Committee 
on Baseball Veterans. With eleven members, they elected six players in 
their first vote in 1953. Starting in 1955, they would meet to elect up 
to two players in odd-numbered years. In 1962, they went back to annual 
elections to the Hall of Fame, with the continued mandate to elect up to 
two players a year. The Hall of Fame suffered in the 1970s, when Frankie 
Frisch was a major voice on the committee. The old Hall of Famer, backed 
by former teammate Bill Terry and sportswriters J. Roy Stockton and Fred 
Lieb, who covered Frisch's teams, managed to get five of his teammates 
elected to the Hall by the committee. Additionally, in the three years 
after his death, two more teammates were elected. After Frisch died and 
Terry left the Committee, elections were normalized. In 1978, membership 
increased to fifteen members, five Hall of Famers, five owners and executives, 
and five sportswriters. The members would meet in Florida during spring 
training to elect a player or two every year. The Veterans Committee mandate 
of up to two players was increased briefly from 1995 to 2001. In these 
years, the committee could elect one extra player from the Negro leagues 
and one from the 19th century in addition to the two regular players. During 
much of its existence, the Veterans Committee consisted of fifteen members 
selected by the Hall of Fame for defined terms. A six-man subcommittee 
of this group met as a screening committee to determine who would be on 
the ballot. The committee met annually to consider candidates in four separate 
categories: The Veterans Committee met privately, and its ballots and voting 
results were generally not revealed prior to 2003. From the mid-1970s until 
2001, the top candidate in each category was elected to the Hall of Fame 
if he earned at least 75% of the committee's votes. In 1936, a total of 
78 ballots were cast by players, writers, managers and officials who had 
first-hand familiarity with 19th-century baseball, resulting in 371 individual 
votes for 57 specific candidates; 59 votes were required for election. 
No candidates were elected, possibly because of a great deal of confusion 
regarding the voting procedure. The ballots which were issued in this vote 
also featured a list of suggested candidates, which was amended after complaints 
that Ed Delahanty, Willie Keeler and Cy Young should be on this ballot 
as well as that for the 20th century; but when some voters expressed doubts 
regarding the possibility of write-in votes, a letter including clearer 
instructions specifically allowing for write-ins had to be mailed. Many 
voters were also under the impression that they were to select an "All-Star 
team" of ten players, with one at each position; 58 ballots cast in this 
manner were sent back to the voters to be re-cast, although ten voters 
returned the ballots unaltered, stating that was the way they wished to 
vote regardless of the instructions. The results were delayed for several 
days until early February while these reminders and revisions took place. 
It was further decided, during the tabulations and after the voting, that 
voters would each be restricted to five total votes in order to limit the 
initial 19th-century selections to five players; but since most voters 
had cast votes for ten, it was ruled that each vote would only count as 
1/2 in the total for that candidate – making a 75% tally nearly mathematically 
impossible. When the votes were tabulated with this method, only two candidates 
had totals reaching even 50% of the required number. Plans for a runoff 
election featuring only the top twelve finishers, to be held prior to the 
1939 opening of the Hall, never materialized; even with all the problems, 
the 1936 vote would remain the Hall's most successful attempt to seek a 
wide vote from experts on the era regarding candidates from that period. 
Candidates who were listed as suggestions on the ballot are indicated here 
with a †. Candidates who have since been selected in subsequent elections 
are indicated in italics, as is Honus Wagner, who was elected in the BBWAA 
vote: After the error-ridden 1936 election failed to select any 19th-century 
players, the Hall opted in 1937 to have a small committee select inductees 
"for outstanding service to base ball apart from playing the game". The 
Commission's members were: Commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis; National 
League president Ford Frick; American League president Will Harridge; Judge 
William G. Bramham, president of the National Association of Professional 
Baseball Leagues (the minor league overseeing body); former NL president 
John Heydler; and George Trautman, president of the minor league American 
Association and chairman of the National Association's executive committee. 
At the December 1937 major league winter meetings in Chicago, Frick announced 
that the Commission had elected: Among the five only Mack was still living 
when the selections were made; Wright had died only that year, August 21. 
The Commission chose two inductees at the major league winter meetings 
in New York City in December 1938, though the choices were not announced 
until January 1939: Difficulties in convening the Centennial Commission 
of the previous two years led to an even smaller Old-Timers Committee selecting 
inductees from the 19th century – a cause of particular urgency to many 
who had been anticipating the five promised but unfulfilled selections 
in that area for over three years. As the opening of the Hall approached, 
criticism mounted that no 19th-century figures who were known primarily 
as players had yet been selected, when basic plans nearly four years earlier 
had promised five as an ideal initial number. In addition, the six-member 
Centennial Commission which had selected honorees in the previous two years 
never had an opportunity to meet. As a result, a smaller committee of only 
three members – Commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis, National League president 
Ford Frick, and American League president Will Harridge – was formed to 
choose appropriate honorees; their selections were announced on May 2, 
less than six weeks before the Hall's opening. They chose six inductees, 
all of whom were deceased; of the thirteen committee selections between 
1937 and 1939, only Connie Mack was still living at the time of the Hall's 
opening (his Athletics played in the inaugural Hall of Fame game). The 
committee's choices included the two players who had tied for first in 
the failed 1936 Veterans vote (the 3rd- and 4th-place finishers had by 
this time been selected by the BBWAA; the 6th-place choice had been selected 
by an earlier committee): The remaining inductees were: When the National 
Baseball Museum opened on June 12, 1939 in Cooperstown New York, it remained 
to be determined how the membership in its Hall of Fame would be determined 
in the future. The Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA) had 
determined to vote every three years rather than annually, although it 
had voted in special election to consider Lou Gehrig. That move was a widely 
criticized, as observers generally agreed that it was a good pace to elect 
about three recent players annually, as from 1936 to 1939. After the Centennial 
Committee made six selections in 1939 from the figures of the 19th century, 
baseball's Commissioner Landis completely revised the committee's membership, 
designating it the Hall of Fame Committee and establishing it as the institution's 
permanent governing body. From 1939 to 1944 its four members were Athletics 
owner and manager Connie Mack, Yankees president Ed Barrow, Braves president 
Bob Quinn, and sportswriter Sid Mercer. This committee was responsible, 
in its function as the Old-Timers Committee, for selecting additional worthy 
candidates from the 19th century, but it never convened during this five-year 
period, and thereby selected no one. Inaction fostered greater complaints 
that the stars of the 1880s and 1890s were being ignored. The relative 
slight was small considering the baseball writers voted only once between 
1939 and 1945 and elected only one recent player. There was no regular 
election in 1944 to select inductees to the Baseball Hall of Fame; in 1939 
the Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA) had moved to hold 
elections every three years rather than annually, and the next scheduled 
election was to be in 1945. In addition, the four-member Old-Timers Committee 
formed in late 1939 to select deserving individuals from the 19th century 
had still never met for that purpose, and criticism of the lack of honorees 
from that period was increasing. On August 4, 1944, baseball commissioner 
Kenesaw Mountain Landis named three new members to the Hall of Fame Committee, 
in addition to the four already named; he instructed them to put aside 
any delay and choose at least ten individuals from the period 1876–1900 
when they met early in 1945, in order that those selected might be honored 
concurrently with any elected by the BBWAA in their regular election in 
January. This was a goal the committee members believed they would have 
no problem meeting, and some noted that the number of deserving players 
was probably over two dozen. The previously named committee members were: 
Yankees president Ed Barrow; Athletics owner/manager Connie Mack; New York 
sportswriter Sid Mercer; and Braves president Bob Quinn. The newly named 
members were: Hall of Fame president Stephen C. Clark, who would chair 
the committee; Hall of Fame treasurer Paul S. Kerr, who would serve as 
committee secretary; and Boston sportswriter Mel Webb. Landis died on November 
25, 1944 while plans were being made to extend his contract for a new seven-year 
term. Within days, the public and press strongly advocated his immediate 
election to the Hall. Two weeks after Landis' death, the Old-Timers Committee 
met at baseball's winter meetings in New York City and elected Landis to 
membership in the Hall of Fame; Connie Mack sent his approval of the move 
by telegram from California, where he was vacationing. The members stated 
that any delay in electing Landis might have been resulted in an unfortunate 
increase in public pressure, possibly creating the impression that the 
move was somehow forced rather than voluntary. The committee also suggested 
that if the upcoming BBWAA election failed to select any players whose 
careers extended into the early 20th century, some would be selected by 
the committee when they met again in February 1945. Landis was formally 
inducted into the Hall of Fame on June 13, 1946, with New York Governor 
Thomas Dewey unveiling his plaque in Cooperstown. In response to the failure 
of the BBWAA to select any inductees, the Old-Timers Committee was encouraged 
to assist the BBWAA in clearing the congestion at the top of its ballot 
by including, among their ten requested selections from the period 1876–1900, 
some players whose careers extended into the early 20th century – in particular, 
the three players gaining over 100 votes in the BBWAA election whose careers 
had peaked before 1905. The committee members were: Hall of Fame president 
Stephen C. Clark, who chaired the committee; Hall of Fame treasurer Paul 
S. Kerr, the committee secretary; Yankees president Ed Barrow; Athletics 
owner/manager Connie Mack; New York sportswriter Sid Mercer; Braves president 
Bob Quinn; and Boston sportswriter Mel Webb. The committee had initially 
planned to meet in February; but the long search for a successor to Landis, 
along with the retirements of Barrow and Quinn as club presidents, delayed 
the meeting until April 25, 1945 one day after Albert "Happy" Chandler 
was elected as the second Commissioner of Baseball (November 1, 1945 to 
July 15, 1951). On that day, in the offices of the New York Yankees, six 
members of the committee met to make their selections; Sid Mercer could 
not attend due to a long illness which took his life eight weeks later. 
The committee, as requested, selected ten inductees, the first three by 
unanimous vote: Of the ten selections, only Clarke and Duffy were still 
living. The committee intended to consider the pitchers of the era at their 
next meeting in September, and to elect additional members at that time. 
When they met in Cooperstown on September 6, however, they focused instead 
on revising the widely criticized election process, and ordered that the 
BBWAA resume annual elections under a revised format which was hoped to 
facilitate more selections (the BBWAA having selected only one player in 
six years). Former National League president John Heydler participated 
in the meeting to replace those members who were deceased or otherwise 
unable to attend. Once the decision was made to hold the next election 
in 1946 rather than in 1948, the committee agreed to postpone the selection 
of pitchers and other candidates until they met in spring 1946. Among those 
candidates who were not elected by the Old-Timers Committee at their April 
1945 meeting, there were five who received particularly strong support 
or attention: Although the committee's selections were roundly applauded 
at the time, in later years many baseball historians and writers came to 
believe strongly that the committee erred in some of its 1945 selections, 
and that too many individuals had been elected; however, this view does 
not consider the fact that the committee had been required to select ten 
inductees that year. There are also several factors which make the reasons 
for their choices clearly discernible: After its 1945 selections, the committee 
had intended to review the pitchers from the pre-1910 era and to also re-focus 
on the earlier 19th century players; but after the BBWAA had failed to 
select any inductees for the second year in a row, and with only one player 
chosen by the BBWAA since 1939, it was generally accepted that a dramatic 
revision of the election process by the Hall of Fame Committee was necessary. 
The committee firmly agreed that any flaws in the rules were causing errors 
of omission rather than ones of liberality in selections, and that the 
wide field of candidates from the entire 20th century was making it unlikely 
that any candidate could draw 75% of the vote from the BBWAA. The committee 
members were: Hall of Fame president Stephen C. Clark, who chaired the 
committee; Hall of Fame treasurer Paul S. Kerr, the committee secretary; 
former Yankees president Ed Barrow; Athletics owner/manager Connie Mack; 
former Braves president Bob Quinn; and Boston sportswriter Mel Webb. New 
York sportswriter Harry Cross, who had been named in February to fill the 
vacancy created by the death of Sid Mercer, also died on April 4. On April 
23, the members of the committee met in New York City to consider their 
selections and to make further revisions in the election process. In May, 
Grantland Rice was named to fill the vacancy on the committee, and another 
major revision in the BBWAA voting process was enacted at their meeting 
in December. The committee determined that the candidates from the early 
part of the century were gaining the most support, but would likely never 
reach the necessary threshold of 75% because many younger writers were 
reluctant to vote for players about whom they had limited first-hand knowledge. 
In 1945 the committee had believed that only a handful of those early candidates 
whose careers bridged the turn of the century needed to be removed from 
BBWAA consideration in order to facilitate elections; they were now more 
certain that they needed to select players whose careers began after 1900, 
and extended through the 1910s, in order to break the deadlock in the BBWAA 
voting. There was even some support on the committee from eliminating the 
BBWAA from the process entirely, due to their inability for several years 
to agree on appropriate inductees. The committee selected eleven inductees 
– five of whom were still living – including the first two left-handed 
pitchers to reach the Hall. They were formally inducted on July 21, 1947, 
with National League president Ford Frick officiating; however, of the 
four still living at that time (Johnny Evers died in the interim), only 
Ed Walsh attended the ceremonies: The committee had followed up on its 
intent to review most of the popular pitching candidates of the era, but 
took no further action on the candidacies, proposed one year earlier, of 
Abner Doubleday and Franklin Roosevelt. They also took no action on additional 
stars such as Jim "Deacon" White from the era before 1890, an area in which 
selections had continually been postponed. The Hall of Fame Committee also 
announced the creation of the Honor Rolls of Baseball, which would be displayed 
at the museum, featuring the names of significant non-players in four areas. 
This second-tier list consisted of five managers, eleven umpires, eleven 
executives and twelve sportswriters. These contributors were not designated 
as official Hall of Fame members, so plaques on the wall were not authorized, 
as they were reserved only for those outstanding players, along with certain 
pioneers of the game. The Honor Roll recognition was not meant to be a 
final destination for anyone in the categories of writers, umpires, managers 
and executive. The committee was clear that any of the men named to the 
Honor Rolls would be eligible for full admission into the Hall in the future. 
In fact, nine of the thirty-nine have received the higher honor. Of the 
thirty-nine honorees, only eight were still living: Barrow, Carrigan, Connolly, 
Dinneen, Evans, Heydler, Klem and Quinn. Whereas the committee's 1945 selections 
met with criticism only in later years, complaints regarding their moves 
in 1946 began more immediately. The committee had not yet outlined the 
revised voting rules for BBWAA elections, and many observers felt that 
the BBWAA's privilege of selecting 20th-century players was being infringed. 
It was widely suggested that the committee should either reform the BBWAA's 
voting rules or eliminate the writers entirely from the process; it was 
also noted that there was still plenty of work for the committee in selecting 
further 19th-century inductees. Criticism was also directed at the Roll 
of Honor, which had been created by the committee without any popular request; 
many felt that the Roll was a backhanded, secondary honor for individuals 
who had perhaps earned full membership in the Hall, and that the committee 
had simply established it as an excuse for inaction regarding non-playing 
candidates. It was further noted that managers (Connie Mack), executives 
(Ban Johnson), sportwriters (Henry Chadwick) and pioneers (Alexander Cartwright) 
were already included among the Hall's members, indicating that it had 
not been intended as an honor solely for players. Probably as a result 
of this criticism, there were never any additions to the Roll of Honor. 
Specific, individual criticism regarding the eleven inductees selected 
by the committee was not as immediate, although the choices included some 
which have come to be met with greater disapproval than any of the 1945 
choices; McCarthy has been described as the worst player in the Hall of 
Fame.[8] Again, it is reasonably clear to discern the several factors which 
the committee likely found most important in making their selections in 
both 1945 and 1946: After not having voted on new inductees since 1946, 
the committee still did not meet formally to consider candidates; instead, 
the members cast ballots by mail on candidates from the pre-1924 era. This 
minor action temporarily decreased criticism that earlier players were 
being overlooked, but it would be the only attempt between 1946 and 1953 
to elect players from this period, and there was no attempt to review managers 
and other non-playing candidates. On May 9, 1949, it was announced that 
two pitchers had been selected: Nichols was still living, but Brown had 
died February 14, 1948. They were formally inducted on June 13 along with 
Charlie Gehringer and the 1948 selections, Pie Traynor and the late Herb 
Pennock; Nichols and Traynor were in attendance. The selection of these 
two pitchers from the period between 1890 and 1916 was roundly applauded, 
but it was noted that stars of the earlier era had been ignored once again, 
as well as position players from the same period. By 1953, the Old-Timers 
Committee had not met for seven years (1946), and had only elected two 
players by mail (Mordecai Brown and Kid Nichols). They had not elected 
any non-players since the mass induction of 1945, and no players whose 
careers had begun before 1890 since the election of 1946. In response to 
this and the Old-Timers Committee members' increasing ages, a new "Committee 
on Baseball Veterans" was created, consisting of J. G. Taylor Spink, publisher 
of The Sporting News from 1914 to 1962, Chairman of the Committee; Paul 
Kerr, director of the Clark Foundation which funded the Hall, and future 
President of the Baseball Hall of Fame; American League President Will 
Harridge; National League President and former General Manager of the Cincinnati 
Reds Warren Giles; Branch Rickey, who helped pioneer the farm system as 
General Manager of the St. Louis Cardinals, signed Jackie Robinson who 
broke the color barrier as General Manager of the Brooklyn Dodgers, and 
was at this time active General Manager of the Pittsburgh Pirates; President 
of the International League Frank Shaughnessy; Hall of Fame second baseman 
Charlie Gehringer; sportswriter Warren Brown, who, among other things, 
is credited with giving Babe Ruth the nickname "The Sultan of Swat"; sportswriter 
Frank Graham of the New York Journal-American; sportswriter and former 
BBWAA President John Malaney of The Boston Post; and former sportswriter 
and then current secretary-treasurer of the National League Charlie Segar. 
Of the eleven members, seven would eventually be inducted into the Hall 
of Fame themselves: Charlie Gehringer had already been inducted as a player 
in 1949; Branch Rickey would be inducted as an executive/pioneer in 1967; 
Will Harridge would be inducted as an executive in 1972; Warren Giles would 
be inducted as an executive in 1979; and J.G. Taylor Spink (1962), Frank 
Graham (1971) and Warren Brown (1973) would be honored with the J. G. Taylor 
Spink Award. It was also decided in 1953 that the new Veterans Committee 
would meet only in odd-numbered years. On July 22, 1956 it was decided 
that the BBWAA would vote only in even-numbered years. The first Veterans 
Committee met in closed sessions and elected six people: Ed Barrow, Chief 
Bender, Tommy Connolly, Bill Klem, Bobby Wallace, and Harry Wright. Afterwards, 
the Veterans Committee was limited to two selections per meeting. In 1955, 
the Veterans Committee selected Frank Baker and Ray Schalk. In 1957, the 
Veterans Committee selected Sam Crawford and Joe McCarthy. In 1959, the 
Veterans Committee selected Zack Wheat. Also in 1959, Lee Allen (baseball) 
succeeded Ernest Lanigan as Hall of Fame historian. According to Bill James, 
Paul Kerr would generally convince the Veterans Committee to select those 
Lee Allen had suggested to him, until Allen's death in 1969. In 1961, the 
Veterans Committee selected Max Carey and Billy Hamilton. The Veterans 
Committee is also expanded from eleven members to twelve. In 1962, after 
the BBWAA had selected no one in the 1958 and 1960 elections, the BBWAA 
ballot would have a second run-off election of the top vote-getters if 
there were no selection, and the Veterans Committee resumed meeting annually. 
The Veterans Committee selected Edd Roush and Bill McKechnie. In 1963, 
the Veterans Committee selected John Clarkson, Elmer Flick, Eppa Rixey 
and Sam Rice. Following the death of J. G. Taylor Spink in December, the 
Baseball Writers' Association of America inaugurated the Spink Award honoring 
a baseball writer. It would be conferred as part of the induction ceremonies 
in Cooperstown, which would help ensure at least one living, honored guest. 
Spink was the first recipient, deceased. In 1964, the Veterans Committee 
selected Red Faber, Burleigh Grimes, Miller Huggins, Tim Keefe, Heinie 
Manush, and John Montgomery Ward. In 1965, the Veterans Committee selected 
Pud Galvin. The election of only one person, who had been deceased for 
more than 60 years evoked wide criticism and led in part to the resumption 
of annual votes for recent players by the baseball writers. In 1966, the 
Veterans Committee selected Casey Stengel. In 1967, the Veterans Committee 
selected Branch Rickey and Lloyd Waner. In 1968, the Veterans Committee 
selected Kiki Cuyler and Goose Goslin. Goose Goslin would later credit 
Lawrence Ritter's book, The Glory of Their Times, which had been released 
in 1966, for helping his induction. Stan Coveleski (1969), Harry Hooper 
and Rube Marquard (1971) were also elected soon after having appeared in 
The Glory of Their Times. In 1969, the Veterans Committee selected Stan 
Coveleski and Waite Hoyt. In 1970, the Veterans Committee selected Earle 
Combs, Jesse Haines and Ford Frick. In 1971, the Veterans Committee selected 
Dave Bancroft, Jake Beckley, Chick Hafey, Harry Hooper, Joe Kelley, Rube 
Marquard and George Weiss. With seven electees, this was the largest class 
the Veterans Committee ever chose in its history from 1953–2001. Partly 
in response to such a large class, the Veterans Committee was then limited 
to selecting two players and one non-player every year. In 1972, the Veterans 
Committee selected Lefty Gomez, Will Harridge and Ross Youngs. In 1973, 
the Veterans Committee selected Billy Evans, George Kelly and Mickey Welch. 
In 1974, the Veterans Committee selected Jim Bottomley, Jocko Conlan and 
Sam Thompson. In 1975, the Veterans Committee selected Earl Averill, Bucky 
Harris and Billy Herman. In 1976, the Veterans Committee selected Roger 
Connor, Cal Hubbard and Freddie Lindstrom. In 1977, the Veterans Committee 
selected Al López, Amos Rusie and Joe Sewell. After this election, the 
Veterans Committee was then limited to two selections overall per year. 
In 1978, the Veterans Committee selected Addie Joss and Larry MacPhail. 
In 1979, the Veterans Committee selected Warren Giles and Hack Wilson. 
In 1980, the Veterans Committee selected Chuck Klein and Tom Yawkey. In 
1981, the Veterans Committee selected Rube Foster and Johnny Mize. In 1982, 
the Veterans Committee selected Happy Chandler and Travis Jackson. In 1983, 
the Veterans Committee selected Walter Alston and George Kell. In 1984, 
the Veterans Committee selected Rick Ferrell and Pee Wee Reese. In 1985, 
the Veterans Committee selected Hoyt Wilhelm and Arky Vaughan. In 1986, 
the Veterans Committee selected Bobby Doerr and Ernie Lombardi. In 1987, 
the Veterans Committee selected Ray Dandridge. In 1988, the Veterans Committee 
met and selected no one. In 1989, the Veterans Committee selected Al Barlick 
and Red Schoendienst. In 1990, the Veterans Committee met and selected 
no one. In 1991, the Veterans Committee selected Tony Lazzeri and Bill 
Veeck. In 1992, the Veterans Committee selected Bill McGowan and Hal Newhouser. 
In 1993, the Veterans Committee met and selected no one. In 1994, the Veterans 
Committee selected Leo Durocher and Phil Rizzuto. In 1995, the Veterans 
Committee met in closed sessions to elect as many as two executives, managers, 
umpires, and older major league players—the categories considered in all 
its meetings since 1953. By a new arrangement it separately considered 
candidates from the Negro leagues and from the 19th century with authority 
to select one from each of those two special ballots. The older players 
eligible were those with ten major league seasons beginning 1946 or earlier; 
those who received at least 100 votes from the BBWAA in some election up 
to 1992; and those who received at least 60% support in some election beginning 
1993. Players on Major League Baseball's ineligible list were also ineligible 
for election. The committee elected four people, the maximum number permitted: 
center fielder Richie Ashburn from the 1950s, pitcher Vic Willis from the 
1900s, pitcher Leon Day from the Negro leagues, and from the 19th century 
William Hulbert, the founder and second president of the National League. 
In 1996, the Veterans Committee selected Ned Hanlon from the 19th century 
and Bill Foster from the Negro leagues, as well as Jim Bunning and Earl 
Weaver. In 1997, the Veterans Committee selected Willie Wells from the 
Negro leagues, as well as Nellie Fox and Tommy Lasorda. No 19th-century 
candidate was elected. In 1998, the Veterans Committee selected George 
Davis from the 19th century and Bullet Rogan from the Negro leagues, as 
well as Larry Doby and Lee MacPhail. In 1999, the Veterans Committee selected 
Frank Selee from the 19th century and Joe Williams from the Negro leagues, 
as well as Orlando Cepeda and Nestor Chylak. In 2000, the Veterans Committee 
selected Bid McPhee from the 19th century and Turkey Stearnes from the 
Negro leagues, as well as Sparky Anderson. In 2001, the Veterans Committee 
selected Hilton Smith from the Negro leagues as well as Bill Mazeroski. 
No 19th-century candidate was elected. The Board of Directors reformed 
the system radically with new rules enacted in August 2001. Formerly fifteen 
members appointed to limited terms, the new Veterans Committee would comprise 
all living members of the Hall and recipients of the Spink and Frick awards 
to writers and broadcasters. In particular the new members were sixty-one 
living Hall of Famers, thirteen living recipients of the J. G. Taylor Spink 
Award, thirteen living recipients of the Ford C. Frick Award, and three 
members of the previous committee with unexpired terms had not yet expired. 
Elections for players retired more than twenty years would be held every 
other year and elections for (managers, umpires and executives) would be 
held every fourth year. The first cycle for both categories would be in 
2002 and 2003 for induction in 2003. Rules enacted in August 2001 provided 
that the Veterans Committee would be expanded from its previous fifteen 
members, elected to limited terms, and it would vote by mail rather than 
convene. The new committee would comprise all living members of the Hall 
of Fame, recipients of the Spink Award (writers), recipients of the Frick 
Award (broadcasters), and members of the old committee until expiration 
of their terms. They would vote by mail using "ballots and supporting material 
-- prepared by the Hall of Fame".[9] The process would cover players every 
two years and other contributors (managers, umpires and executives) every 
four years. Both cycles first concluded with elections in February 2003, 
electing no one. (In the event, the system was reformed again after the 
third fruitless election for players and the second for other contributors 
in February 2007.) A new BBWAA-appointed Historical Overview Committee 
comprising ten baseball writers nominated 200 players and 60 managers, 
umpires, and executives. Players. († marks those newly eligible since 2001 
(eight). The last played in the majors during 1980 or 1981.) Babe Adams 
– Joe Adcock – Dick Allen – Johnny Allen – Felipe Alou – Bobby Ávila – 
†Sal Bando – Dick Bartell – Ginger Beaumont – Glenn Beckert – Wally Berger 
– †Bobby Bonds – Ken Boyer – Harry Brecheen – Tommy Bridges – Pete Browning 
– Charlie Buffinton – Lew Burdette – George H. Burns – George J. Burns 
– Guy Bush – Dolph Camilli – Leo Cárdenas – Bob Caruthers – George Case 
– Norm Cash – Phil Cavarretta – Spud Chandler – Ben Chapman – Rocky Colavito 
– Walker Cooper – Wilbur Cooper – Mort Cooper – Doc Cramer – Del Crandall 
– Gavy Cravath – Lave Cross – Mike Cuellar – Bill Dahlen – Alvin Dark – 
Jake Daubert – Tommy Davis – Willie Davis – Paul Derringer – Dom DiMaggio 
– Patsy Donovan – Jimmie Dykes – Bob Elliott – Del Ennis – Carl Erskine 
– Roy Face – Wes Ferrell – Freddie Fitzsimmons – Curt Flood – Bill Freehan 
– Jim Fregosi – Larry French – Carl Furillo – Mike Garcia – Jim Gilliam 
– Jack Glasscock – Joe Gordon – Charlie Grimm – Dick Groat – Heinie Groh 
– Stan Hack – Harvey Haddix – Mel Harder – Jeff Heath – Tommy Henrich – 
Babe Herman – Pinky Higgins – †John Hiller – Gil Hodges – Ken Holtzman 
– †Willie Horton – Elston Howard – Frank Howard – Dummy Hoy – Larry Jackson 
– Julián Javier – Jackie Jensen – Sam Jethroe – Bob Johnson – Davey Johnson 
– Joe Judge – Willie Kamm – Ken Keltner – Don Kessinger – Johnny Kling 
– Ted Kluszewski – Ray Kremer – Harvey Kuenn – Joe Kuhel – Vern Law – Sam 
Leever – Mickey Lolich – Sherm Lollar – Herman Long – Ed Lopat – Dolf Luque 
– Sal Maglie – Jim Maloney – Firpo Marberry – Marty Marion – Roger Maris 
– †Mike G. Marshall – Pepper Martin – Carl Mays – †Tim McCarver – Frank 
McCormick – Lindy McDaniel – Gil McDougald – Sam McDowell – Stuffy McInnis 
– Denny McLain – Roy McMillan – Dave McNally – Andy Messersmith – Bob Meusel 
– Irish Meusel – Bing Miller – Stu Miller – Minnie Miñoso – Terry Moore 
– Tony Mullane – Thurman Munson – Johnny Murphy – Buddy Myer – Art Nehf 
– Don Newcombe – Bobo Newsom – Lefty O'Doul – Tony Oliva – Claude Osteen 
– Milt Pappas – Mel Parnell – Camilo Pascual – Ron Perranoski – Jim Perry 
– Johnny Pesky – Rico Petrocelli – Deacon Phillippe – Billy Pierce – Vada 
Pinson – Wally Pipp – Johnny Podres – Boog Powell – Jack Quinn – Vic Raschi 
– Ed Reulbach – Allie Reynolds – †J. R. Richard – Eddie Rommel – Charley 
Root – Al Rosen – Schoolboy Rowe – Pete Runnels – Jimmy Ryan – Johnny Sain 
– †Manny Sanguillén – Ron Santo – Hank Sauer – Wally Schang – Hal Schumacher 
– George Scott – Rip Sewell – Bob Shawkey – Urban Shocker – Roy Sievers 
– Curt Simmons – Vern Stephens – Riggs Stephenson – Mel Stottlemyre – Harry 
Stovey – Jesse Tannehill – Tony Taylor – Johnny Temple – Fred Tenney – 
Bobby Thomson – Mike Tiernan – Joe Torre – Cecil Travis – Hal Trosky – 
Virgil Trucks – George Van Haltren – Johnny Vander Meer – Bobby Veach – 
Mickey Vernon – Dixie Walker – Bucky Walters – Lon Warneke – Will White 
– Cy Williams – Ken R. Williams – Maury Wills – Wilbur Wood – Glenn Wright 
– Jimmy Wynn – Rudy York Contributors. Gene Autry – Buzzie Bavasi – Samuel 
Breadon – Charles Bronfman – Gussie Busch – George W. Bush – Roger Craig 
– Harry Dalton – Bill Dinneen – Charles Dressen – Barney Dreyfuss – Chub 
Feeney – John Fetzer – Charles O. Finley – John Galbreath – Larry Goetz 
– Calvin Griffith – Fred Haney – Doug Harvey – Garry Herrmann – Whitey 
Herzog – John Heydler – Ralph Houk – Bob Howsam – Fred Hutchinson – Ewing 
Kauffman – Bowie Kuhn – Frank Lane – Billy Martin – Gene Mauch – Marvin 
Miller – Danny Murtaugh – Hank O'Day – Walter O'Malley – Steve O'Neill 
– Paul Owens – Steve Palermo – Gabe Paul – Joan Payson – Babe Pinelli – 
Bob Quinn – Alfred Reach – Beans Reardon – Paul Richards – Cy Rigler – 
Bill Rigney – Ben Shibe – Charles Somers – Billy Southworth – George Stallings 
– Bill Summers – Cedric Tallis – Chuck Tanner – Birdie Tebbetts – Patsy 
Tebeau – Chris von der Ahe – Lee Weyer – Bill White – Dick Williams – Phil 
Wrigley Sixty baseball writers selected from the nominees twenty-five players 
and fifteen other contributors to appear on the ballots. Meanwhile, six 
Hall of Fame members independently selected five nominated players, making 
twenty-five to thirty players. Evidently the writers passed over one man 
selected by the Hall of Famers, for there were twenty-six players on the 
final ballot. Among 85 eligible voters, 81 cast ballots, so 61 votes were 
the minimum to elect a candidate. Only three players, led by Gil Hodges 
(61%), tallied more than fifty percent support. († marks those who were 
newly eligible since 2001. Italics mark those subsequently elected.) On 
the composite ballot all fifteen finalists had been active since 1976. 
Writing for the Business of Baseball Committee, SABR, Pappas classified 
them as one umpire (U), four owners (O), one labor leader (L), three general 
managers (GM), four managers (M), and two league officials (lg). Among 
85 eligible voters, 79 cast ballots so 60 votes were the minimum to elect 
a candidate. Only umpire Doug Harvey tallied more than fifty percent support. 
(Italics mark those subsequently elected.) Following 2004, when no Veterans 
election was held, the Committee voted in 2005 on players who were active 
no later than 1983; the next such election was in 2007. There was no 2005 
election for non-players; the last such election was in 2003, and the next 
was held in 2007. In December 2003, a Historical Overview Committee of 
nine sportswriters appointed by the BBWAA's Board of Directors met at the 
Hall of Fame's library and nominated 200 players who were active in the 
major leagues no later than 1983. They were provided with statistical information 
by the Elias Sports Bureau, official statistician for Major League Baseball 
since the 1920s, which also identified the 1,400 players with ten or more 
years of play who were eligible. The Historical Overview Committee comprised 
Bob Elliott (Toronto Sun), Steve Hirdt (Elias Sports Bureau), Rick Hummel 
(St. Louis Post-Dispatch), Moss Klein (Newark Star-Ledger), Bill Madden 
(New York Daily News), Ken Nigro (former Baltimore Sun writer), Jack O'Connell 
(The Hartford Courant), Tracy Ringolsby (Rocky Mountain News), and Mark 
Whicker (Orange County Register). Their list of 200 players was announced 
April 19, 2004. Players. († marks those newly eligible since 2003 (eight). 
They last played in the majors during 1982 or 1983.) Babe Adams – Joe Adcock 
– Dick Allen – Felipe Alou – Sal Bando – Dick Bartell – Ginger Beaumont 
– †Mark Belanger – Wally Berger – Bobby Bonds – Ken Boyer – Harry Brecheen 
– Tommy Bridges – Pete Browning – Charlie Buffinton – Lew Burdette – George 
H. Burns – George J. Burns – Dolph Camilli – †Bert Campaneris – Bob Caruthers 
– George Case – Norm Cash – Phil Cavarretta – Spud Chandler – Ben Chapman 
– Rocky Colavito – Mort Cooper – Walker Cooper – Wilbur Cooper – Doc Cramer 
– Del Crandall – Gavvy Cravath – Lave Cross – Mike Cuellar – Bill Dahlen 
– Alvin Dark – Jake Daubert – Tommy Davis – Willie Davis – Paul Derringer 
– Dom DiMaggio – Patsy Donovan – Larry Doyle – Jimmy Dykes – Bob Elliott 
– Del Ennis – Carl Erskine – Elroy Face – Wes Ferrell – Freddie Fitzsimmons 
– Curt Flood – Bill Freehan – Jim Fregosi – Carl Furillo – Mike Garcia 
– Junior Gilliam – Jack Glasscock – Joe Gordon – Charlie Grimm – Dick Groat 
– Heinie Groh – Stan Hack – Harvey Haddix – Mel Harder – Jeff Heath – Tommy 
Henrich – Babe Herman – Pinky Higgins – John Hiller – Gil Hodges – Ken 
Holtzman – Willie Horton – Elston Howard – Frank Howard – Dummy Hoy – Larry 
Jackson – Jackie Jensen – Sam Jethroe – Bob L. Johnson – Davey Johnson 
– Joe Judge – †Jim Kaat – Willie Kamm – Ken Keltner – Don Kessinger – Johnny 
Kling – Ted Kluszewski – Ray Kremer – Harvey Kuenn – Joe Kuhel – Vern Law 
– Sam Leever – Mickey Lolich – Sherm Lollar – Herman Long – Eddie Lopat 
– Dolf Luque – †Sparky Lyle – Sal Maglie – Jim Maloney – Firpo Marberry 
– Marty Marion – Roger Maris – Mike G. Marshall – Pepper Martin – †Lee 
May – Carl Mays – Tim McCarver – Frank McCormick – Lindy McDaniel – Gil 
McDougald – Sam McDowell – Stuffy McInnis – Denny McLain – Roy McMillan 
– Dave McNally – Andy Messersmith – Bob Meusel – Irish Meusel – Bing Miller 
– Stu Miller – Minnie Miñoso – Terry Moore – Tony Mullane – Thurman Munson 
– †Bobby Murcer – Johnny Murphy – Buddy Myer – Art Nehf – Don Newcombe 
– Bobo Newsom – Lefty O'Doul – Tony Oliva – Claude Osteen – Andy Pafko 
– Milt Pappas – Camilo Pascual – Ron Perranoski – Jim Perry – Johnny Pesky 
– Rico Petrocelli – Deacon Phillippe – Billy Pierce – Vada Pinson – Wally 
Pipp – Johnny Podres – Boog Powell – Jack Quinn – Vic Raschi – Ed Reulbach 
– Allie Reynolds – Eddie Rommel – Charlie Root – Al Rosen – Schoolboy Rowe 
– Pete Runnels – Jimmy Ryan – Johnny Sain – Ron Santo – Hank Sauer – Wally 
Schang – George Scott – Rip Sewell – Bob Shawkey – Urban Shocker – Roy 
Sievers – Curt Simmons – †Reggie Smith – Vern Stephens – Riggs Stephenson 
– Mel Stottlemyre – Harry Stovey – Jesse Tannehill – Tony Taylor – Johnny 
Temple – Fred Tenney – Bobby Thomson – †Luis Tiant – Mike Tiernan – Joe 
Torre – Cecil Travis – Hal Trosky – Virgil Trucks – Johnny Vander Meer 
– George Van Haltren – Bobby Veach – Mickey Vernon – Dixie Walker – Bucky 
Walters – Lon Warneke – Will White – Cy Williams – Ken R. Williams – Maury 
Wills – Smoky Joe Wood – Wilbur Wood – Glenn Wright – Jimmy Wynn – Rudy 
York The 200 players were almost evenly divided between players retired 
less than 50 years (99 players retired from 1955 to 1983) and those retired 
over 50 years (101 players retired 1954 or earlier). The list of 200 was 
almost identical to the list prepared for the 2003 election; apart from 
the eight players who were newly eligible, only Larry Doyle, Andy Pafko 
and Smoky Joe Wood were added to the list, for a net change of eleven individuals. 
Perhaps due to the reliance on official statistics – often incomplete in 
the sport's early years – provided by the Elias Sports Bureau, the committee 
included very few players from the sport's first half-century, which remained 
poorly represented in the Hall; only fifteen players were included who 
made their debut before 1893. Although the Hall's current membership included 
fewer than a dozen non-pitchers of the 1870s and 1880s, compared to nearly 
50 from the 1930s and 1940s, the committee included nearly fifty more players 
from the period between 1920 and 1945, but only seven who played primarily 
in the twenty-five years before 1893: first baseman/outfielder Harry Stovey, 
shortstop Jack Glasscock, outfielder Pete Browning, and pitchers Charlie 
Buffinton, Bob Caruthers, Tony Mullane and Will White. The inclusion of 
Will White was remarkable in that his brother Deacon White is widely accepted 
as having been a far greater player. In addition to Deacon White, stars 
of the 19th century who were omitted included Paul Hines, Deacon McGuire, 
Cupid Childs, Bobby Lowe, George Gore, Hardy Richardson, Ezra Sutton, Arlie 
Latham, Fred Pfeffer and Joe Start. By primary fielding position the nominees 
were starting pitchers (66), relief pitchers (9), catchers (10), first 
basemen (24), second basemen (8), third basemen (13), shortstops (19), 
left fielders (18), center fielders (17) and right fielders (16). The Historical 
Overview nominations were forwarded to a sixty-member BBWAA screening committee 
comprising two writers from each major league city. In summer 2004 they 
selected twenty-five players who would appear on the final ballot. (Everyone 
voted for twenty-five nominees.) Meanwhile, a committee of six Hall of 
Fame members independently selected five of the 200 nominees who would 
appear on the final ballot, which would thereby comprise twenty-five to 
thirty players. Evidently the writers named all of the Hall of Fame members' 
five selections, for there were twenty-five on the final ballot. On December 
6, 2004, the final ballot of twenty-five candidates was announced. Those 
selected played primarily from the 1950s onward, with only five of the 
twenty-five candidates having retired before 1960, and only three pitchers 
– Smoky Joe Wood, Carl Mays and Wes Ferrell – having retired before 1950. 
The BBWAA screening committee had failed to include any candidates from 
the era before 1910. This likely reflected a tendency among the voting 
writers to vote only for those players they had seen themselves, and to 
withhold votes from earlier players. All sixty living members of the Hall 
were eligible to cast ballots in the final election, along with the eight 
living recipients of the J. G. Taylor Spink Award, the fourteen living 
recipients of the Ford C. Frick Award, and the sole additional member of 
the pre-2001 Veterans Committee whose term had not yet expired (John McHale). 
Balloting was conducted by mail in January 2005, with voters permitted 
to vote for up to ten candidates from the ballot of twenty-five individuals; 
all candidates who received at least 75% of the vote would be elected. 
Results of the voting by the Veterans Committee were announced on March 
2. There were eighty-three eligible voters, eighty of whom cast ballots; 
sixty votes were required for election. In all, 458 individual votes were 
cast, for an average of 5.73 votes per ballot. For the second consecutive 
Veterans Committee election, no player was elected. Of the twenty-one candidates 
who were also on the 2003 ballot, only seven gained more votes in 2005, 
with only Joe Torre (seven), Ron Santo (six) and Ken Boyer (three) increasing 
their totals by more than two votes. Candidates who were considered by 
the Committee for the first time are indicated here with a †; candidates 
who have since been elected in subsequent elections are indicated in italics. 
The complete ballot, with the number of votes cast for each candidate, 
was: Hall of Fame chairwoman Jane Forbes Clark responded to the Committee's 
failure to elect anyone in 2005 by saying: "The results of the last two 
elections show that the writers – by and large – have done a great job 
of electing players to the Hall of Fame. The current process works by upholding 
the Hall of Fame's high standards for election and by providing a more 
open, more inclusive and more understandable process." Noting that the 
top candidates gained slightly from the 2003 voting, she added: "What's 
encouraging for me is that this shows the process to be dynamic, not static." 
Hall of Fame member Tom Seaver, noting that he had voted for three candidates 
including Gil Hodges, said of the chances of future selections: "I'm of 
the opinion it's going to be awfully hard, and maybe that's how it should 
be." He added: "Will somebody make it out of this committee one day? Absolutely. 
I'm convinced they will." But response from observers in the press and 
throughout baseball was widely critical. Stephen Cannella of Sports Illustrated 
wrote: "Seaver's right. Hall of Fame standards should be high. But letting 
the inmates play gatekeeper allows them to make those standards unreachable. 
... it might be too much to ask Hall of Famers to be guardians of their 
realm. ... Would you want to belong to a club that would have anyone else 
as a member?" Mike Downey of the Chicago Tribune wrote: "And once again 
these gentlemen made it crystal clear they like their society being extremely 
exclusive. They act as aristocratically as a board from a private school 
or a homeowners association in the Hamptons. ... if the vote were left 
strictly to former players, they might not let another soul in." Dave Anderson 
wrote in The New York Times: "It's time not only for the Cooperstown pooh-bahs 
to rethink this realigned committee's selection process, but also to question 
the responsibility of the do-nothing committee ... after two veterans committee 
shutouts, it's fair to wonder how responsibly do the Hall of Famers, especially 
the 58 ex-players among them, take their duty as voters? Do they really 
study the two pages of statistics, rankings and highlights supplied to 
them for each of the 25 candidates on the ballot – particularly those of 
players from other eras whom they never competed against and probably know 
nothing about? Do they just glance at the list and make a snap judgment?" 
Some writers specifically lamented the failure to elect particular candidates. 
Ken Rosenthal wrote for The Sporting News: "The writers blew it, and now 
the Veterans Committee is blowing it. Former Cubs third baseman Ron Santo 
should be in the Hall of Fame. Santo's career .826 OPS is more than 100 
points higher than Brooks Robinson's and is only 30 points lower than George 
Brett's. Nine All-Star Games, five Gold Gloves – what exactly is the problem?" 
And Bill Madden of the New York Daily News wrote: "Another exercise in 
futility by the new and expanded Veterans Committee has again left Gil 
Hodges waiting on the Hall of Fame doorstep." Candidate Tony Oliva responded 
to the election by saying: "It's almost impossible to go into the Hall 
of Fame the way the system is now. It's ridiculous." And Ron Santo said: 
"It was a very tough day. ... I'm fortunate to have a wonderful family 
that puts everything into perspective. ... It was hard to believe no one 
got in. One thing I can say is the next time I won't be sitting at home 
waiting for the phone." In July 2000, the Hall was given a $250,000 grant 
from Major League Baseball to begin a comprehensive study on African Americans 
in baseball from 1860–1960, with the hope of enhancing the Hall's collections 
in these areas. In February 2001, the Hall selected three historians – 
Dr. Larry Hogan, Dick Clark and Larry Lester – to conduct the study, which 
involved over fifty other researchers and authors. The resulting study 
was a narrative, bibliography, and statistical database, including 3,000 
day-by-day records, league leaders and all-time leaders, collected from 
box scores in 128 newspapers of sanctioned Negro league games played from 
1920–1954. The box scores reflect almost 100% of games of the 1920s, over 
90% of the games played in the 1930s, and 50-70% of games in the 1940s 
and 1950s. In February 2006, National Geographic published a book featuring 
material from the study, in conjunction with the Hall, called Shades of 
Glory; it covers not only the development of the game, but also its impact 
within the African American community. Pride and Passion, an exhibit focusing 
on the history of African American baseball, debuted at the Hall's museum 
in April 2006. In July 2005 the Hall's Board of Directors appointed two 
expert committees, a screening committee of five and a voting committee 
of twelve. Former Commissioner of Baseball Fay Vincent served as the non-voting 
chairman of both committees and Hall of Famer Frank Robinson served as 
an advisor and assistant to Vincent and the committees. Written recommendations 
from fans and non-committee members were accepted through October 2005 
(stage one). From the many candidates recommended, ninety-four were selected 
for consideration by the screening committee. These second-stage nominations 
were the first ones published (stage two). Newt Allen – Walter Ball – Sam 
Bankhead – Bernardo Baro – John Beckwith – William Bell – Ed Bolden – Chet 
Brewer – Chester Brooks – Dave Brown – Larry Brown – Ray Brown – Willard 
Brown – Bill Byrd – Rev Cannady – Bill Cash – Phil Cockrell – Pancho Coimbre 
– Andy Cooper – Bingo DeMoss – Rap Dixon – John Donaldson – Frank Duncan 
– José Fernandez – Bud Fowler – Jelly Gardner – Charlie Grant – Frank Grant 
– Gus Greenlee – Vic Harris – Pete Hill – Bill Holland – Sammy T. Hughes 
– Fats Jenkins – Sam Jethroe – Home Run Johnson – Oscar Johnson – Henry 
Kimbro – Frank Leland – Dick Lundy – Jimmie Lyons – Biz Mackey – Dave Malarcher 
– Abe Manley – Effa Manley – Max Manning – Oliver Marcelle – J. B. Martin 
– Horacio Martinez – Verdell Mathis – Dan McClellan – Hurley McNair – José 
Méndez – Minnie Miñoso – Bill Monroe – Dobie Moore – Alejandro Oms – Buck 
O'Neil – Red Parnell – John Patterson – Jap Payne – Bruce Petway – Spottswood 
Poles – Alex Pompez – Cumberland Posey – Alex Radcliffe – Ted Radcliffe 
– Dick Redding – Neal Robinson – Nat Rogers – Louis Santop – George Scales 
– Chino Smith – Clarence Smith – George Stovey – Mule Suttles – Ben Taylor 
– C. I. Taylor – Candy Jim Taylor – Cristóbal Torriente – Juan Vargas – 
Moses Walker – Frank Warfield – Chaney White – Sol White – Frank Wickware 
– Wabishaw Wiley – J. L. Wilkinson – Clarence Williams – George Williams 
– George Wilson – Jud Wilson – Nip Winters – Bill Wright Using statistics 
and other historical material from the Hall's earlier study, the screening 
committee met in November at Dodgertown in Vero Beach, Florida to create 
two ballots – one for Negro league players, managers, umpires and executives, 
and another for candidates whose careers mainly preceded the leagues—this 
is, before 1920. The committee members and listed areas of expertise were 
Adrian Burgos (Latin America), Dick Clark (Negro leagues), Larry Hogan 
(overall history), Larry Lester (Negro leagues) and Jim Overmyer (eastern 
teams and 19th century). They cut the 94 nominees to ten pre-Negro leagues 
and 29 Negro leagues candidates (stage three). The following candidates 
appeared on the two final ballots:[10] Negro leagues: Newt Allen – John 
Beckwith – William Bell – Chet Brewer – Ray Brown – Willard Brown – Bill 
Byrd – Andy Cooper – Rap Dixon – John Donaldson – Sammy T. Hughes – Fats 
Jenkins – Dick Lundy – Biz Mackey – Effa Manley – Oliver Marcelle – Minnie 
Miñoso – Dobie Moore – Alejandro Oms – Buck O'Neil – Red Parnell – Alex 
Pompez – Cumberland Posey – George Scales – Mule Suttles – Candy Jim Taylor 
– C. I. Taylor – Cristóbal Torriente – J.L. Wilkinson – Jud Wilson Pre-Negro 
leagues: Frank Grant – Pete Hill – Home Run Johnson – José Méndez – Spottswood 
Poles – Dick Redding – Louis Santop – Ben Taylor – Sol White According 
to Hall president Dale Petroskey, "The screening committee did a great 
job of handling the first step of narrowing the list of candidates to those 
who should be seriously considered for election to the Hall of Fame." Vincent 
added, "I'm very satisfied with the work done by the screening committee. 
The committee members had some difficult choices to make, but because they 
are extremely knowledgeable, had strong research at their disposal and 
spent a great deal of time reviewing all candidates thoroughly, they did 
a tremendous job. The final ballots represent players, managers, executives 
and builders who are top-tier candidates and worthy of review for consideration 
for election to the Hall of Fame." The 39 candidates on the final ballots 
were announced on November 21. The voting committee met in Tampa, Florida 
on February 25 for two days of discussion, after which they cast paper 
ballots with a "yes" or "no" for every candidate. Those who received "yes" 
votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be elected. The seven additional 
voting committee members and listed areas of expertise were Todd Bolton 
(Latin America), Greg Bond (19th century), Ray Doswell (overall history), 
Leslie Heaphy (women's history, Negro leagues), Rob Ruck (Negro leagues 
eastern teams), Sammy Miller (eastern and western teams), and Robert W. 
Peterson (overall history). Ruck replaced Neil Lanctot, author of two books 
on Negro league baseball. Peterson died on February 11, but he had submitted 
an absentee ballot two days earlier and the other committee members voted 
unanimously to accept it. The results were announced February 27: seventeen 
new members had been elected to the Hall. All were deceased. The Newark-based 
executive Effa Manley would be the first woman in the Hall of Fame. Vote 
counts were not announced but the twelve-person committee evidently cast 
at least 153 "yes" votes (seventeen times nine) or at least thirteen per 
voter on average. The inductees brought to thirty-five the number of Negro 
leagues and pre-leagues figures elected to the Hall, the first being Satchel 
Paige in 1971. According to the contemporary press release by the Hall 
of Fame ["Seventeen ..."], its chairwoman Jane Forbes Clark stated, "The 
Board of Directors is extremely pleased with how this project has evolved 
over the last five years – culminating in today's vote. Over the last two 
days, this committee has held discussions in great detail, utilizing the 
research and statistics now available to determine who deserves baseball's 
highest honor – a plaque in the Hall of Fame Gallery in Cooperstown." Major 
League Baseball had funded the prior scholarly study. Its commissioner 
Bud Selig said, "I applaud the National Baseball Hall of Fame for conducting 
this special election of former Negro league stars, and I heartily congratulate 
those who were elected. ... Eighteen Negro league stars had been elected 
prior to today's vote, but previous committees had overlooked many who 
were deserving. Major League Baseball is proud to have played a part in 
a process that has corrected some of those omissions." The Committee voted 
in 2007 on players who were active no later than 1985. Candidates were 
eligible for the composite ballot if they had been retired from the sport 
for five years, or if they were at least 65 years of age and had been retired 
for at least six months. The Committee voted on players again in preparation 
for the 2009 inductions, but that election was conducted under significantly 
different rules enacted in July 2007.[11] The most important changes were: 
For a more complete discussion of the changes, see the Veterans Committee 
article. The Committee was scheduled to vote on non-players in 2011, but 
the July 2007 rules also dramatically affected the voting process for non-players. 
A sixteen-member panel of Hall of Famers, executives, and veteran media 
members voted on managers and umpires again prior to the 2008 inductions. 
A separate twelve-member panel, drawn from the same sources as the managers/umpires 
panel but with a greater concentration of executives, simultaneously voted 
on executives. Both panels voted in the future for inductions in even-numbered 
years[12] before further changes announced in 2010 that took effect with 
the 2011 elections. In December 2005, a Historical Overview Committee of 
ten sportswriters appointed by the BBWAA's Board of Directors met at the 
Hall of Fame's library to develop a list of 200 former players who merited 
consideration for election but played no later than 1985, and a second 
list of sixty former managers, umpires and executives. They were provided 
with statistical information by the Elias Sports Bureau, official statistician 
for Major League Baseball since the 1920s, which also identified the 1,400 
players with ten or more years of play who were eligible. The Historical 
Overview Committee comprised Dave Van Dyck (Chicago Tribune), Bob Elliott 
(Toronto Sun), Steve Hirdt (Elias Sports Bureau), Rick Hummel (St. Louis 
Post-Dispatch), Moss Klein (Newark Star-Ledger), Bill Madden (New York 
Daily News), Ken Nigro (former Baltimore Sun writer), Jack O'Connell (BBWAA 
officer and writer for The Hartford Courant), Nick Peters (The Sacramento 
Bee), and Mark Whicker (Orange County Register). Their lists of 200 players 
and 60 other contributors were announced April 3, 2006. Players. († marks 
those newly eligible since 2005 (twelve). They last played in the majors 
during 1984 or 1985.) Babe Adams – Joe Adcock – Dick Allen – Felipe Alou • Sal 
Bando – Dick Bartell – Ginger Beaumont – Mark Belanger – Wally Berger – 
Bobby Bonds – †Larry Bowa – Ken Boyer – Harry Brecheen – Tommy Bridges 
– Pete Browning – Charlie Buffinton – Lew Burdette – George H. Burns – 
George J. Burns • Dolph Camilli – Bert Campaneris – Bob Caruthers – George 
Case – Norm Cash – Phil Cavarretta – Spud Chandler – Ben Chapman – Rocky 
Colavito – Mort Cooper – Walker Cooper – Wilbur Cooper – Doc Cramer – Del 
Crandall – Gavvy Cravath – Lave Cross – Mike Cuellar • Bill Dahlen – Alvin 
Dark – Jake Daubert – Tommy Davis – Willie Davis – Paul Derringer – Dom 
DiMaggio – Patsy Donovan – Larry Doyle – Jimmy Dykes • Bob Elliott – Del 
Ennis – Carl Erskine • Elroy Face – Wes Ferrell – Freddie Fitzsimmons – 
Curt Flood – Bill Freehan – Jim Fregosi – Carl Furillo • Mike Garcia – 
Junior Gilliam – Jack Glasscock – Joe Gordon – Dick Groat – Heinie Groh • Stan 
Hack – Mel Harder – Jeff Heath – Tommy Henrich – Babe Herman – John Hiller 
– Gil Hodges – Ken Holtzman – †Burt Hooton – Willie Horton – Elston Howard 
– Frank Howard – Dummy Hoy • Larry Jackson – Jackie Jensen – Sam Jethroe 
– Bob L. Johnson – Joe Judge • Jim Kaat – Ken Keltner – Don Kessinger – 
Johnny Kling – Ted Kluszewski – †Jerry Koosman – Ray Kremer – Harvey Kuenn • Sam 
Leever – Mickey Lolich – Sherm Lollar – Eddie Lopat – Dolf Luque – †Greg 
Luzinski – Sparky Lyle • Sherry Magee – Sal Maglie – Jim Maloney – Firpo 
Marberry – Marty Marion – Roger Maris – Mike G. Marshall – Pepper Martin 
– Lee May – Carl Mays – Tim McCarver – Frank McCormick – Lindy McDaniel 
– Gil McDougald – Sam McDowell – †Tug McGraw – Stuffy McInnis – Denny McLain 
– Roy McMillan – Dave McNally – Andy Messersmith – Bob Meusel – Irish Meusel 
– Clyde Milan – Bing Miller – Stu Miller – Minnie Miñoso – Terry Moore 
– Tony Mullane – Thurman Munson – Bobby Murcer – Johnny Murphy – Buddy 
Myer • Art Nehf – Don Newcombe • Lefty O'Doul – Tony Oliva – †Al Oliver 
– Claude Osteen – †Amos Otis • Andy Pafko – Milt Pappas – Camilo Pascual 
– Ron Perranoski – Jim Perry – Johnny Pesky – Rico Petrocelli – Deacon 
Phillippe – Billy Pierce – Vada Pinson – Johnny Podres – Boog Powell • Jack 
Quinn • Vic Raschi – Ed Reulbach – Allie Reynolds – †Mickey Rivers – †Steve 
Rogers – Eddie Rommel – Charlie Root – Al Rosen – Schoolboy Rowe – Jimmy 
Ryan • Johnny Sain – Slim Sallee – Ron Santo – Wally Schang – George Scott 
– Rip Sewell – Bob Shawkey – Urban Shocker – Roy Sievers – Curt Simmons 
– †Ken Singleton – Reggie Smith – †Rusty Staub – Vern Stephens – Riggs 
Stephenson – Mel Stottlemyre – Harry Stovey • Jesse Tannehill – Fred Tenney 
– Bobby Thomson – Luis Tiant – Mike Tiernan – Joe Torre – Cecil Travis 
– Hal Trosky – Virgil Trucks • Johnny Vander Meer – George Van Haltren 
– Bobby Veach – Mickey Vernon • Dixie Walker – Bucky Walters – Lon Warneke 
– †Bob Watson – Will White – Cy Williams – Ken R. Williams – Maury Wills 
– Smoky Joe Wood – Wilbur Wood – Jimmy Wynn • Rudy York Among the newly 
eligible players who were not included were Rick Monday, Bucky Dent, Jeff 
Burroughs, Lou Piniella, Richie Hebner, Mike Torrez, Paul Splittorff and 
Oscar Gamble. As in previous years, the 200 players were almost evenly 
divided between players retired less than 50 years (98 players retired 
from 1957 to 1985) and those retired over 50 years (102 players retired 
1956 or earlier). The list of 200 was almost identical to the list prepared 
for the 2005 election; apart from the twelve players who were newly eligible, 
only three players from the 1910s were added: left fielder Sherry Magee, 
center fielder Clyde Milan, and pitcher Slim Sallee. Perhaps due to the 
reliance on official statistics – often incomplete in the sport's early 
years – provided by the Elias Sports Bureau, the committee included very 
few players from the sport's first half-century, which remains poorly represented 
in the Hall; only fourteen players were included who made their debut before 
1893 (one fewer than in 2005). Although the Hall's current membership includes 
fewer than a dozen non-pitchers of the 1870s and 1880s, compared to nearly 
fifty from the 1930s and 1940s, the committee included over forty more 
players from the period between 1920 and 1945, but only seven who played 
primarily in the twenty-five years before 1893: first baseman/outfielder 
Harry Stovey, shortstop Jack Glasscock, outfielder Pete Browning, and pitchers 
Charlie Buffinton, Bob Caruthers, Tony Mullane and Will White. For the 
third time, Will White was included even though his brother Deacon is widely 
accepted as having been a far greater player. In addition to Deacon White, 
stars of the 19th century who were omitted included Paul Hines, Deacon 
McGuire, Cupid Childs, Bobby Lowe, George Gore, Hardy Richardson, Ezra 
Sutton, Arlie Latham, Fred Pfeffer and Joe Start. By primary fielding position 
the nominees were starting pitchers (67), relief pitchers (10), catchers 
(10), first basemen (21), second basemen (5), third basemen (11), shortstops 
(18), left fielders (17), center fielders (22) and right fielders (19). 
Of the fifteen players who were dropped from the 2005 list, nearly all 
were infielders (11) or pitchers (3), with Hank Sauer being the only outfielder; 
as had been true in earlier years, the list of preliminary candidates seemed 
to have been developed based on raw offensive totals, with less regard 
for defensive ability or considerations of era. Contributors. The committee 
also named sixty managers, umpires and executives. († marks those newly 
eligible since 2005. Managers are denoted by (M), umpires by (U) and executives 
by (E).) Gene Autry (E) – Buzzie Bavasi (E) – Samuel Breadon (E) – Charles 
Bronfman (E) – August Busch, Jr. (E) – George W. Bush (E) – Roger Craig 
(M) – Harry Dalton (E) – Bing Devine (E) – Bill Dinneen (U) – Charles Dressen 
(M) – Barney Dreyfuss (E) – Chub Feeney (E) – John Fetzer (E) – Charles 
O. Finley (E) – Calvin Griffith (E) – Charlie Grimm (M) – Doug Harvey (U) 
– Garry Herrmann (E) – Whitey Herzog (M) – John Heydler (E) – Ralph Houk 
(M) – Bob Howsam (E) – Fred Hutchinson (M) – †Davey Johnson (M) – Ewing 
Kauffman (E) – Bowie Kuhn (E) – Frank Lane (E) – Billy Martin (M) – Gene 
Mauch (M) – John McSherry (U) – †Jack McKeon (M) – Marvin Miller (E) – 
Danny Murtaugh (M) – Hank O'Day (U) – Walter O'Malley (E) – Steve O'Neill 
(M) – Paul Owens (E) – Steve Palermo (U) – Gabe Paul (E) – Babe Pinelli 
(U) – Bob Quinn (E) – Alfred Reach (E) – Beans Reardon (U) – Paul Richards 
(M) – Cy Rigler (U) – Bill Rigney (M) – Jake Ruppert (E) – Ben Shibe (E) 
– Charles Somers (E) – Billy Southworth (M) – Bill Summers (U) – Chuck 
Tanner (M) – Birdie Tebbetts (M) – Chris von der Ahe (E) – Lee Weyer (U) 
– Bill White (E) – Dick Williams (M) – Phil Wrigley (E) – †Don Zimmer (M) 
Fifty-three of the sixty nominees were holdovers from the 2003 list; along 
with the three newly eligible candidates, the four additions were Bing 
Devine, John McSherry, Jake Ruppert, and Charlie Grimm (who had been included 
on the players' list in both 2003 and 2005). The candidates include thirty-one 
individuals who were primarily executives, nineteen who were managers, 
and ten who were umpires. Davey Johnson, like Grimm, was dropped from the 
players' ballot after being included there in 2003 and 2005; evidently 
the review committee members regarded Johnson (age 63) as having been retired 
since 2000 even though he had managed the U.S. team in the 2005 Baseball 
World Cup, and served as a bench coach in the 2006 World Baseball Classic. 
Some people eligible for the first time but not nominated were umpires 
Larry Barnett, Jim Evans, Rich Garcia, Dave Phillips and Harry Wendelstedt, 
and managers Jim Fregosi, Tom Kelly and Johnny Oates (Fregosi was included 
on the players' list). The Historical Overview Committee nominations were 
forwarded to a sixty-member BBWAA screening committee comprising two writers 
from each major league city. In summer 2006 they elected twenty-five players 
and fifteen contributors who would appear on the final ballots. (Everyone 
voted for twenty-five and fifteen candidates from the two preliminary ballots.) 
Meanwhile, a committee of six Hall of Fame members independently selected 
five of the two hundred nominated players who would appear on the final 
ballot, so the final ballots would comprise twenty-five to thirty players 
and fifteen contributors. Evidently the writers passed over two of the 
Hall of Fame members' five selections, for there were twenty-seven on the 
final players ballot. The final ballots were announced on September 28, 
2006. Twenty-three of the twenty-five players on the 2005 ballot returned, 
with Lefty O'Doul, Cecil Travis, Mickey Vernon and one newly eligible player 
added as well, replacing Elston Howard and Smoky Joe Wood. Those selected 
played primarily from the 1950s onward, with only six of the candidates 
having retired before 1960, and only three – pitchers Carl Mays and Wes 
Ferrell, and left fielder/pitcher O'Doul – having retired before 1947. 
The BBWAA screening committee failed to include any candidates from the 
era before 1910. This likely reflected a tendency among the voting writers 
to vote only for those players they had seen themselves, and to withhold 
votes from earlier players. All sixty-one living members of the Hall were 
eligible to cast ballots in the final election, along with the eight living 
recipients of the J. G. Taylor Spink Award (including Jack Lang, who died 
on January 25 after voting had begun), the fourteen living recipients of 
the Ford C. Frick Award, and the sole additional member of the pre-2001 
Veterans Committee whose term had not yet expired (John McHale). Balloting 
was conducted by mail in January 2007, with voters permitted to vote for 
up to ten candidates from each ballot; all candidates who received at least 
75% of the vote would be elected. Results of the voting by the Veterans 
Committee were announced on February 27. There were eighty-four eligible 
voters. Eighty-two cast ballots in the players election, with sixty-two 
votes required for election; eighty-one cast ballots in the composite election, 
with sixty-one votes required for election. In all, 489 individual votes 
were cast on the players ballot, for an average of 5.96 votes per ballot, 
while 338 individual votes were cast on the composite ballot, an average 
of 4.17 votes per ballot. For the third consecutive Veterans Committee 
election, no one was elected. Of the twenty-three players who were also 
on the 2005 ballot, fourteen received fewer votes in 2007, with only Jim 
Kaat (nine), Don Newcombe (nine), Maury Wills (seven) and Ron Santo (five) 
increasing their totals by at least five votes. The twenty-seven candidates 
on the players' ballot, with one player newly eligible since 2005 indicated 
with a † and candidates who have since been elected in subsequent elections 
indicated in italics, were: There were fifteen candidates on the composite 
ballot, all of whom had been previously eligible. Again reflecting an emphasis 
on recent figures, all fifteen were active in the sport in 1976 or later. 
The candidates, with the ten executives designated (E), the four managers 
designated (M) and the sole umpire designated (U), and those who have since 
been selected in subsequent elections indicated in italics, were: Following 
the third consecutive election in which there were no selections, and with 
only minimal gains by individual candidates over that period, Hall of Fame 
chairwoman Jane Forbes Clark suggested that the Hall's board of directors 
might make changes in the process before the next scheduled election in 
2009, saying, "We are disappointed that no one has been elected in the 
three voting cycles. We will be evaluating this process and its trends 
at our next meeting, which is March 13, and discussing whether there should 
be any changes." She added, "The board may decide that the trends are not 
what we thought they were going to be. Perhaps this hasn't worked as well 
as some of the board members thought it would and maybe it needs a little 
bit of change."[13] The board took no action at its March meeting, opting 
to continue discussions before its next meeting during induction weekend 
in July.[14] Hall of Fame member and vice chairman Joe Morgan tried to 
deflect criticism, saying, "We're being blamed because something hasn't 
happened. If you're asking me, 'Do we lower our standards to get more people 
in?' my answer would be no." Noting that he voted for the maximum ten players, 
he added, "I feel there are some guys out there that belong in the Hall 
of Fame", but also said, "The writers voted on these people for fifteen 
years and they weren't elected. Why are we being criticized because we 
haven't elected someone?"[13] Joe Torre, who received less than half the 
required number of votes (but is widely expected to be elected once he 
is eligible for consideration as a manager), expressed disappointment that 
no one was selected and said, "I'm not exactly sure what process they use. 
Don't forget, you've got the old guard and the young guard. People with 
different interests."[13] And Hall of Famer Mike Schmidt noted his support 
for Jim Kaat and observed that other members also had "their guys", admitting, 
"Maybe that is the problem when you are trying to evaluate 'bubble' players 
on entrance. The same thing happens every year. The current members want 
to preserve the prestige as much as possible, and are unwilling to open 
the doors."[13] Two months after the results were announced, Commissioner 
Bud Selig expressed puzzlement that figures such as Ron Santo had not been 
elected, and indicated that after three unsuccessful elections he now favored 
a revision in the voting method.[15] Coincidentally or not, the aforementioned 
rules changes for the Veterans Committee election process were announced 
almost exactly three months after Selig's remarks. The Veterans Committee 
election process, radically changed in 2001, was revamped yet again in 
July 2007.[16] The changes that most directly affected this election involved 
elections of non-players (managers, umpires and executives). Under the 
2001 rules, elections of non-players would be held every fourth year on 
a "composite ballot". No candidate was elected from the composite ballot 
in 2003 or 2007. With the 2007 rules changes, the composite ballot was 
split into two separate ballots—one for managers and umpires and the other 
for executives. Also, the voting membership of the Committee, which previously 
included all living members of the Hall, was now reduced to include just 
a handful of those members, plus additional executives and sportswriters 
(only one of whom had been among the previous electorate). Voting for both 
the managers/umpires and executives ballots will now take place prior to 
inductions in even-numbered years, starting with 2008. To be eligible, 
managers and umpires need to be retired for at least five years, or for 
at least six months if they are age 65 or older, while executives need 
to be either retired or at least age 65. A Historical Overview Committee 
of eleven sportswriters appointed by the BBWAA's Board of Directors met 
to develop a ballot of ten managers and umpires; the committee members 
were: Dave Van Dyck (Chicago Tribune), Bob Elliott (Toronto Sun), Rick 
Hummel (St. Louis Post-Dispatch), Steve Hirdt (Elias Sports Bureau), Moss 
Klein (Newark Star-Ledger), Bill Madden (New York Daily News), Ken Nigro 
(formerly Baltimore Sun), Jack O'Connell (MLB.com), Nick Peters (The Sacramento 
Bee), Tracy Ringolsby (Rocky Mountain News) and Mark Whicker (The Orange 
County Register). The managers/umpires list was submitted to a sixteen-member 
panel composed of ten Hall of Famers (eight players and two managers), 
three executives and three veteran media members for a final vote. A separate 
ballot of ten executives was developed by a twelve-member panel including 
seven executives, two players and three writers, which was the same committee 
which did the final voting in that area. On November 8, 2007, the final 
ballots were released. Each panel member could vote for up to four individuals 
on each ballot, and each candidate who received 75% of the vote from either 
panel would be elected; therefore, a maximum of five inductions was possible 
from each ballot. Voting was conducted at baseball's winter meetings in 
Nashville, Tennessee on December 2, 2007, with the results announced on 
December 3; it was the first time since 2001 that the Committee met to 
discuss candidates, as the previous three elections had been conducted 
by mail. The ballot for managers and umpires included seven managers (designated 
M) and three umpires (designated U), with twelve votes required for election. 
Candidates who received at least 75% of the vote and were elected[17][18] 
are indicated in bold italics; candidates who have since been elected in 
later elections are indicated in italics. Southworth, who won four National 
League titles between 1942 and 1948, and Williams, who won American League 
titles in 1967 and 1972–73 and an NL flag in 1984, had been the only eligible 
managers with at least four league pennants who had not yet been elected 
to the Hall;[19] Southworth's 1,044 career victories, however, were the 
fewest by any manager yet elected.[20] The committee members apparently 
made an effort to vote for as many candidates as they were allowed, casting 
at least 58 of a possible 64 individual votes (vote totals for four candidates 
were not released). Herzog, Martin, Williams and Harvey had previously 
been on the final composite ballot in the 2007 election. Four of the candidates 
were still living; at the time the ballot was released, Williams was 78, 
Harvey 77, Herzog a day shy of his 76th birthday, and Johnson 64. Harvey 
was the only manager or umpire on the ballot who received majority support 
in 2007, receiving 52 votes from the 81 committee members who voted that 
year. The leading vote-getter among managers in 2007 was Williams, who 
received 30 votes; Herzog was just behind at 29. Harvey and Herzog would 
both live to be inducted in 2010. The election committee, which was announced 
on the same day as the ballot, included:[21] At the induction ceremonies, 
St. Louis Cardinals owner Bill DeWitt gave the speech to accept Southworth's 
induction. On the executives ballot, nine votes were required for election; 
those candidates who received at least 75% of the vote and were elected[21] 
are indicated in bold italics: Dreyfuss, who owned the Pittsburgh Pirates 
from 1900 to 1932, and O'Malley, who owned the Brooklyn/Los Angeles Dodgers 
from 1950 to 1979, were the first National League owners since the 1880s 
to be elected to the Hall; Kuhn — who died in March 2007 after receiving 
just 17% of the vote in the January 2007 vote — had been the only eligible 
commissioner who served more than five years who had not yet been elected. 
As with the other committee, voters apparently tried to vote for as many 
candidates as they were allowed, casting at least 44 of a possible 48 individual 
votes (vote totals for three candidates were not released). Five of the 
ten candidates (Bavasi, Kuhn, Miller, O'Malley and Paul) were holdovers 
from the 2007 composite ballot, with McHale (who was then a member of the 
voting committee) being the only one who was not on the initial 2007 list 
of sixty candidates. The four candidates then living (Bavasi, Howsam, McHale 
and Miller) were all age 86 or older; Bavasi, Howsam and McHale all died 
within five months of the election. Miller's fifty-one votes on the 2007 
ballot were second overall to Harvey and tops among executives, and made 
him the only executive to earn majority support that year. The election 
committee, which was announced on the same day as the ballot, included:[21] 
After the elections, various observers expressed skepticism over the failure 
to elect Marvin Miller, especially given the selection of Kuhn, his longtime 
bargaining adversary. It was noted that Miller had received 51 votes (out 
of 81) in the January 2007 election to Kuhn's 14, when all but one of the 
84 eligible voters were former players, managers or members of the media; 
only two had been former executives, including one (McHale) who had previously 
played in the major leagues, and one former general manager (Lee MacPhail, 
father of 2008 committee member Andy). Miller had also outpolled Kuhn in 
the 2003 election by a 35-20 margin. In contrast, half of the 2008 committee 
was made up of six executives who had never been players, serving almost 
exclusively as team chairmen or CEOs (Andy MacPhail was the sole general 
manager), and this panel instead favored Kuhn by a 10-3 margin. Miller 
himself noted that he was unsurprised by the outcome, given the makeup 
of the revised committee, saying, "This was done with precision. If you 
have a set goal in mind, and I think they did, it's not very hard. I'm 
so able to count votes in advance. Nothing has dimmed with age. No matter 
how various people involved in the Hall try to put a different gloss on 
it, it was done primarily to have somebody elected and secondarily to have 
particular people elected. I don't think this election was about me." He 
added, "I think it was rigged, but not to keep me out. It was rigged to 
bring some of these [people] in. It's not a pretty picture. It's demeaning, 
the whole thing, and I don't mean just to me. It's demeaning to the Hall 
and demeaning to the people in it."[22] At the induction ceremonies, Andrew 
Dreyfuss gave the speech to accept the induction of his great-grandfather 
Barney, former Dodgers owner Peter O'Malley accepted his father Walter's 
induction, and Paul Degener accepted the induction of his adoptive stepfather 
Bowie Kuhn. Rules for election by the Veterans Committee were revised in 
July 2007 following complaints that the three elections conducted under 
the previous format (in 2003, 2005, and 2007) had resulted in no selections. 
After the February 2007 election, Bud Selig expressed frustration over 
the ongoing difficulties, and voiced his support for a revision of the 
process.[23] Under the revised format, a Historical Overview Committee 
composed of eleven sportswriters appointed by the BBWAA's Board of Directors 
met in spring 2008 to develop a ballot of twenty former players active 
between 1943 and 1987; the committee members were: Dave Van Dyck (Chicago 
Tribune); Bob Elliott (Toronto Sun); Rick Hummel (St. Louis Post-Dispatch); 
Steve Hirdt (Elias Sports Bureau); Moss Klein (formerly Newark Star-Ledger); 
Bill Madden (New York Daily News); Ken Nigro (formerly Baltimore Sun); 
Jack O'Connell (MLB.com); Nick Peters (The Sacramento Bee); Tracy Ringolsby 
(Rocky Mountain News); and Mark Whicker (The Orange County Register). A 
six-member panel of Hall of Famers also met to independently select five 
players for consideration; these lists were merged to create a preliminary 
ballot of twenty-one names: Dick Allen, Ken Boyer, Bert Campaneris, Rocky 
Colavito, Mike Cuellar, Steve Garvey, Gil Hodges, Jim Kaat, Ted Kluszewski, 
Mickey Lolich, Roger Maris, Lee May, Minnie Miñoso, Thurman Munson, Tony 
Oliva, Al Oliver, Vada Pinson, Ron Santo, Luis Tiant, Joe Torre and Maury 
Wills. Following the elections of 2003 through 2007, when the voting membership 
of the Veterans Committee included not only the living members of the Hall 
but also recipients of the Ford C. Frick Award and J. G. Taylor Spink Award, 
voting was now limited to Hall members; they met at the Hall during induction 
weekend in 2008, and reduced the ballot to 10 names through voting by mail 
in August. This final ballot was then sent to the sixty-four living members, 
and they voted by mail, casting votes for up to four candidates each. Any 
candidate receiving votes on 75% of ballots would be inducted to the Hall; 
a maximum of five inductees was possible. The final ballot was announced 
on September 16; all ten finalists were returnees from the 2007 final ballot. 
Results were announced on December 8 at Major League Baseball's winter 
meetings in Las Vegas, Nevada, but no candidate received the necessary 
number of votes. All sixty-four eligible voters cast ballots, with forty-eight 
votes required for election. Players elected in subsequent years are indicated 
in plain italics. A total of 213 votes were cast for the ten candidates, 
an average of 3.33 votes per ballot cast, suggesting that most voters cast 
votes for the maximum number of candidates but that the votes were too 
scattered for any one candidate to reach the required number. Although 
Hall of Fame officials had hoped that reducing the field of candidates 
on the final ballot from approximately twenty-five names to ten would help 
focus attention on the most popular candidates and increase the chances 
of a selection, the coinciding move to reduce the allowable number of votes 
per ballot from ten to four appeared to counteract any potential benefit, 
as every candidate but one saw his percentage of the vote drop from 2007 
(Tiant improved slightly from 18.3% to 20.3%). Hall of Fame chairwoman 
Jane Forbes Clark stated, "When our board of directors restructured the 
Veterans Committee after the 2007 election, it did so with the goal of 
ensuring the voters – the living Hall of Famers – would review their peers. 
The 10 post-1942 ballot finalists all spent a substantial part of their 
playing career in the 1960s or the 1970s, and a vast majority of the voters 
were either actively playing, managing or involved in baseball in those 
two decades." She added, "The process was not redesigned with the goal 
of necessarily electing someone, but to give everyone on the ballot a very 
fair chance of earning election through a ballot of their peers. The vote 
reinforces the selections of the Baseball Writers' Association of America 
and maintains the high standards set by the BBWAA. A 75-percent threshold 
is extremely difficult to attain, but the highly selective process helps 
ensure that enshrinement in the Baseball Hall of Fame remains the greatest 
honor in the game."[24] Former manager Dick Williams, who had been inducted 
into the Hall earlier in the year, noted, "It's not our job to vote someone 
in", and added, "It's our job to consider the candidates." Noting his support 
for some of the candidates, he stated, "I thought Kaat would get in. I 
voted for him. And I think Joe Torre will, too, when he's done managing. 
I missed quite a few times before I got in. I know what that's like."[25] 
In announcing the lack of selections from this ballot, Hall president Jeff 
Idelson noted that the Hall's board of directors would review the results 
at its annual spring meeting, in keeping with their regular practice, and 
consider whether to further alter the selection process; he stressed that 
this was the first use of the new process featuring a smaller voting body 
and a reduced ballot. He added that the voting levels indicated that the 
members believed there were worthy candidates for induction, although no 
agreement could be reached as to the best ones. Hall member Joe Morgan, 
also a member of the Hall's board, argued that the current members were 
not trying to keep candidates out, but observed that the addition of strong 
new candidates each election might have the effect of reducing the support 
for any single player.[26] The ballot was composed almost entirely of players 
who were active in the 1960s and 1970s, with all but Hodges being active 
during the period from 1967 to 1972 (Hodges was a manager in that time 
period); even among the twenty-one players initially considered, only six 
had their rookie seasons before 1958, and only Hodges, Ted Kluszewski and 
Minnie Miñoso debuted before 1955. Other players who were on the 2007 ballot 
who were eligible for consideration were Bobby Bonds, Curt Flood, Sparky 
Lyle and Don Newcombe. In addition to Ken Boyer, Rocky Colavito, Kluszewski, 
Roger Maris, Miñoso and Newcombe, other potential candidates whose rookie 
seasons were before 1958 were Billy Pierce, perhaps the American League's 
top pitcher in the mid-1950s, Roy Face, the National League's first great 
reliever, and Dick Groat, a solid-hitting shortstop who was the NL's MVP 
in 1960. Among the players who were eligible for the first time were Dusty 
Baker, Vida Blue, Ron Cey, Cecil Cooper, George Foster, Steve Garvey, Bobby 
Grich, Dave Kingman, Davey Lopes and Bill Madlock, with only Garvey being 
included among the twenty-one semifinalists. In addition to improving on 
the fruitless outcome of the previous three elections for players, there 
may have been particular urgency in the 2009 vote resulting in the selection 
of one or more new members, as in 2011 a large group of potentially popular 
candidates would become eligible – possibly further diluting the support 
for any single candidate. Under the then-current Veterans Committee rules, 
those becoming eligible in 2011 would have included Buddy Bell, Dave Concepción, 
Ron Guidry, Tommy John, Graig Nettles and Ted Simmons; another sizable 
group of potentially popular candidates, including Bob Boone, Dwight Evans, 
Keith Hernandez, Fred Lynn, Dave Parker and Dan Quisenberry, would have 
become eligible in 2013. As it turned out, this would be the last election 
for the Veterans Committee in this particular form. On July 26, 2010, the 
Hall of Fame announced a new voting procedure to consider individuals not 
eligible for the BBWAA ballot. Starting with the 2010 elections for 2011 
induction, three era committees would vote once every three years on candidates 
from a composite ballot from an era including both long-retired players 
and non-playing personnel. The identified candidates by the Historical 
Overview Committee would be divided by each era, with the first vote involving 
figures from what the Hall of Fame now calls the "Expansion Era" (1973–present). 
In 2011, candidates considered from the "Golden Era" (1947–1972), with 
candidates from the "Pre-Integration Era" (1876–1946) following in the 
2012 election for 2013 enshrinement.[27] The first player elected under 
the new procedure was Ron Santo, elected in 2011 by the Golden Era Committee 
as part of the class of 2012.[28] For the first and ultimately only time, 
a separate election was held for players whose major league careers began 
before 1943; these elections were scheduled to occur every five years. 
The election was conducted on December 7, 2008 at the winter meetings in 
Las Vegas, among a committee of twelve Hall members and members of the 
media, with results announced the following day; votes by proxy would be 
allowed only in emergencies, but this was not necessary. The Historical 
Overview Committee of the BBWAA selected ten candidates to appear on the 
ballot, with votes from 75% of the committee necessary for election; each 
committee member could vote for up to four candidates, allowing for a maximum 
of five selections. The final ballot was announced on August 25; the candidate 
who received at least 75% of the vote and was elected is indicated in bold 
italics. The committee members apparently made an effort to vote for as 
many candidates as they were allowed, casting at least 41 of a possible 
48 individual votes (vote totals for three candidates were not released), 
for a minimum possible average of 3.42 votes per ballot. Of the ten final 
candidates, none were living; Vernon was alive at the time the final ballot 
was announced, but died a month later. The finalists included candidates 
spanning the entire period from 1868 (White) to 1960 (Vernon), although 
six of the ten were active in the 1940s; four of the top five finishers 
were active in the 1940s, with the four pre-1930 candidates gaining no 
more than twelve total votes. The voting committee comprised:[24] The Historical 
Overview Committee was permitted to nominate candidates who played in the 
Negro leagues prior to 1946, as long as their time in the Negro leagues 
and major leagues totals at least ten seasons; this rule would seem to 
include players such as Minnie Miñoso (who debuted with the New York Cubans 
in 1945) and Don Newcombe (who debuted with the Newark Eagles in 1944), 
even if they did not appear in the Negro leagues until after 1943. Negro 
league first baseman Buck O'Neil, whose playing career began in 1937, was 
eligible to be included on this ballot; however, if the overview committee 
believed that his contributions to baseball after his playing career ended 
outweigh his playing accomplishments, he could be instead considered in 
the election for non-players in 2010. The rules state that: "Those whose 
careers entailed involvement as both players and managers/executives/umpires 
will be considered for their overall contribution to the game of Baseball; 
however, the specific category in which such individuals shall be considered 
will be determined by the role in which they were most prominent. In those 
instances when a candidate is prominent as both a player and as a manager, 
executive or umpire, the BBWAA Screening Committee shall determine that 
individual's candidacy as either a player (Players Ballot), or as a manager, 
umpires, executive or pioneer (Managers/Umpires Ballot, or Executives/Pioneers 
Ballot)." Because of the 2010 changes to Veterans Committee voting, this 
would be the only vote of the pre-1943 committee. (Last Veterans Committee 
election; for the Class of 2010) With the 2007 rules changes, the composite 
ballot was split into two separate ballots—one for managers and umpires 
and the other for executives. Also, the voting membership of the Committee, 
which previously included all living members of the Hall, was reduced to 
include just a handful of those members, plus additional executives and 
sportswriters. Voting for both the managers/umpires and executives ballots, 
which now takes place prior to inductions in even-numbered years,[29] began 
with the 2008 class of inductees, when two managers and three executives 
were elected. To be eligible, managers and umpires must be retired for 
at least five years, or for at least six months if they are age 65 or older, 
while executives must be either retired or at least age 65. A Historical 
Overview Committee of sportswriters appointed by the BBWAA's Board of Directors 
met to develop a ballot of ten managers and umpires. The managers/umpires 
list was then submitted to a panel composed of Hall of Fame members, executives 
and veteran media members for a final vote. A separate ballot of ten executives 
was developed by a panel including executives, players and writers, which 
was the same committee which finally voted in that area. The final ballots 
were released in November 2009. Each panel member was allowed to vote for 
up to four individuals on each ballot, and each candidate who received 
75% of the vote from either panel was elected; therefore, a maximum of 
five inductions were possible from each ballot. Voting was conducted at 
baseball's winter meetings in Indianapolis on December 6, 2009, with the 
results announced the next day; as was the case with the 2008 class of 
inductees, the Committee met to discuss the candidates, although the previous 
three elections had been conducted by mail. The ballot for managers and 
umpires included eight managers (designated M) and two umpires (designated 
U), with twelve votes required for election. Candidates who received at 
least 75% of the vote were elected.[17] Those that were inducted are indicated 
in bold italics. In contrast with the 2008 election, voters made less of 
an effort to vote for as many candidates as they were allowed. While at 
least 58 of the permitted 64 individual votes were cast in 2008, the number 
of known individual votes cast in this election was 48 of the possible 
64. (Vote totals for the five trailing candidates were announced as "less 
than 3", or 0 to 2.) Seven of the candidates had been on the preceding 
ballot in 2008, with Grimm, Kelly, and O'Neill appearing for the first 
time and umpire Cy Rigler dropping off the ballot. Four candidates were 
living when the final results were announced—Harvey (age 79), Herzog (78), 
Johnson (66), and Kelly (59). The election committee, which was announced 
on the same day as the ballot, included:[17] Of the sixteen members of 
the election committee, eleven voted for the class of 2008. The five new 
voters were all Hall of Famers: Murray, Roberts, Sandberg, Smith, and 2008 
inductee Dick Williams. Because of the changes announced for future elections, 
this was the last meeting of this particular committee. Of the ten candidates 
for election, Doug Harvey and Whitey Herzog received the 75% needed to 
garner induction.[30] On the executives ballot, nine votes were required 
for election; no candidates were elected.[17] As with the other committee, 
voters in this election made less of an effort to vote for as many candidates 
as allowed than in the 2008 election. The number of individual votes cast 
went down to a greater degree than in the managers/umpires balloting—only 
28 of the possible 48 individual votes were known to have been cast in 
this election, compared to 44 in the 2008 voting. (Vote totals for the 
six trailing candidates were announced as "less than 3", or 0 to 2.) Of 
the ten candidates, six (Fetzer, Howsam, Kauffman, McHale, Miller, and 
Paul) were holdovers from the 2008 ballot.[31] Autry, Breadon, and Ruppert 
appeared on the ballot for the first time; White, who was on the 2007 composite 
ballot but was not on the 2008 ballot, returned for 2010. Buzzie Bavasi, 
who died in the intervening period, was on the 2008 ballot but not the 
2010 ballot. Two candidates were living when the results were announced—Miller, 
age 92, and White, age 75. The election committee, which was announced 
on the same day as the ballot, included:[17] Of the twelve members of the 
election committee, eight voted for the class of 2008. The new voters were 
Hall of Famers Roberts and Seaver, executive Schuerholz, and sportswriter 
Pepe. As with the managers/umpires voting committee, this was the final 
meeting for the executives voting committee because of the voting changes 
announced in July 2010. (Elected by the Expansion Era Committee to the 
Class of 2011) Beginning in 2010, an eleven-member BBWAA-appointed Historical 
Overview Committee identified twelve Expansion Era candidates who were 
judged to have made their greatest contributions during the Expansion Era 
(1973–present era). Along with the 1973–present era, these criteria defined 
the consideration set: Historical Overview Committee members: Dave Van 
Dyck (Chicago Tribune); Bob Elliott (Toronto Sun); Rick Hummel (St. Louis 
Post-Dispatch); Steve Hirdt (Elias Sports Bureau); Moss Klein (formerly 
Newark Star-Ledger); Bill Madden (New York Daily News); Ken Nigro (formerly 
Baltimore Sun); Jack O'Connell (BBWAA secretary/treasurer); Nick Peters 
(formerly Sacramento Bee); Tracy Ringolsby (FSN Rocky Mountain); and Mark 
Whicker (Orange County Register).[32] The Expansion Era ballot was originally 
scheduled for release in October[27] but was delayed until November 8. 
The twelve candidates were eight players, one manager, and three executives.[32] 
The sole candidate who was elected is indicated in bold italics. All except 
Martin and Steinbrenner were living when the ballot and results were announced. 
Martin and Miller were holdovers from the most recent ballots covering 
managers and executives (2010), and Oliver was a holdover from the most 
recent ballot covering post-1942 players (2009). The Expansion Era Committee 
(16-member voting committee appointed by the Hall's Board of Directors) 
was announced at the same time as the final Expansion Era Ballot:[32] The 
Expansion Era Committee convened at the 2010 winter meetings in Orlando, 
Florida with the standard 75% or twelve of sixteen votes required for election 
and summer 2011 induction. Results were announced at 10:00 am EST on December 
6, 2011.[32] (Elected by the Golden Era Committee to the Class of 2012) 
Beginning in 2011, an eleven-member BBWAA appointed-Historical Overview 
Committee identified ten Golden Era candidates who were judged to have 
made their greatest contributions during the Golden Era (between 1947 and 
1972). Along with the 1947–1972 era, these rules defined the consideration 
set: Historical Overview Committee members: Dave Van Dyck (Chicago Tribune); 
Bob Elliott (Toronto Sun); Rick Hummel (St. Louis Post-Dispatch); Steve 
Hirdt (Elias Sports Bureau); Bill Madden (New York Daily News); Ken Nigro 
(formerly Baltimore Sun); Jack O'Connell (BBWAA secretary/treasurer); Glenn 
Schwarz (formerly San Francisco Chronicle); Claire Smith (ESPN); Tracy 
Ringolsby (FSN Rocky Mountain); and Mark Whicker (Orange County Register).[35] 
The Golden Era Ballot was released on November 3, 2011,[36][37] and the 
Hall of Fame announced the results on December 5, 2011.[38] Kaat, Miñoso, 
Oliva, and Tiant were living when the ballot was announced.[36] The Golden 
Era Committee (16-member voting electorate appointed by the Hall of Fame's 
Board of Directors) was announced at the same time as the Golden Era ballot:[36] 
The Golden Era Committee convened at the December 2011 winter meetings 
on December 5 with the standard 75% or 12 of 16 votes required for election 
and July 22, 2012 induction.[35] (Elected by the Pre-Integration Committee 
to the Class of 2013) Beginning in 2012, an eleven-member BBWAA-appointed 
Historical Overview Committee identified ten Pre-Integration Era candidates 
who were judged to have made their greatest contributions during the Pre-Integration 
Era (between 1876 and 1947). Along with the 1876–1947 era, these criteria 
defined the consideration set:[40] Historical Overview Committee members: 
Dave Van Dyck (Chicago Tribune); Bob Elliott (Toronto Sun); Rick Hummel 
(St. Louis Post-Dispatch); Steve Hirdt (Elias Sports Bureau); Bill Madden 
(New York Daily News); Ken Nigro (formerly Baltimore Sun); Jack O'Connell 
(BBWAA secretary/treasurer); Tracy Ringolsby (FSN Rocky Mountain); Glenn 
Schwarz (formerly San Francisco Chronicle); Claire Smith (ESPN); and Mark 
Whicker (Orange County Register).[41] The Pre-Integration Era Ballot was 
released on November 1, 2012,[41] and the Hall of Fame announced the results 
on December 3.[42] The pre-Integration Committee (16-member voting committee 
appointed by the Hall's Board of Directors) was announced at the same time 
as the final Pre-Integration Era ballot:[41] The Pre-Integration Era Committee 
convened at the 2012 winter meetings in Nashville on December 3, with 75% 
or 12 of 16 votes required for election to the Hall of Fame and July 28, 
2013 induction.[40] Ruppert, O'Day and White were elected to the Hall of 
Fame.[43] Dahlen received 10 of 16 votes, the highest total of anyone not 
elected.[42] No one else received more than three votes.[42] In 2001, the 
Hall of Fame radically changed the composition and election procedures 
for the Veterans Committee, which was revised to consist of: All members 
of the former Veterans Committee remained active until the expiration of 
their terms. Only two were on the committee for the 2003 election, the 
first under the new election procedures. Only one of the former Veterans 
Committee members (John McHale) remained on the committee for the 2005 
and 2007 elections, and his term expired immediately after the 2007 election. 
The election procedures instituted in 2003 are listed below. The procedures 
were changed again in 2007. Rules, and portions thereof, that changed in 
2007 are indicated in italics. Using these procedures, no one was elected 
to the Hall of Fame by the Veterans Committee in 2003, 2005, or 2007. Following 
the 2007 elections, the makeup of the committee was again changed, and 
several procedures were also modified:[44] The threshold for induction 
remained at 75% of all who voted on the appropriate ballot. In the first 
election held under the new rules, two managers and three executives were 
elected in December 2007 as part of the 2008 election process. The Hall 
announced a new Veterans Committee voting process on June 26, 2010, effective 
with the 2011 election process that began late in 2010. The two biggest 
changes are:[27] Candidates will be classified by the time-periods that 
cover their greatest contributions: Candidates from each era will be considered 
every third year, starting with the Expansion Era in the 2011 election 
(December 2010, 2013), followed by the Golden Era (December 2011, 2014) 
and then by the Pre-Integration Era (December 2012, 2015). The existing 
Historical Overview Committee will formulate each ballot for release in 
the October or November before the next planned induction ceremony. The 
Expansion Era ballot will include 12 candidates, while the other two ballots 
will include ten each. The Hall's Board of Directors will select sixteen-member 
committees for each era, made up of Hall of Famers, executives, baseball 
historians, and media members. Each committee will convene at the Winter 
Meetings in December to consider and vote on candidates from its assigned 
era. As before, the threshold of induction will remain at 75% of those 
voting.[27] On July 23, 2016, the Hall of Fame announced changes to the 
Era Committee system. Highlighting these changes is a restructuring of 
the timeframes to be considered, with a much greater emphasis on modern 
eras. Additionally, those major league players, managers, umpires and executives 
who excelled before 1950, as well Negro Leagues stars, will still have 
an opportunity to have their careers reviewed, but with less frequency.[7] 
Separate 16-member subcommittees will continue to vote on individuals from 
different eras of baseball, with candidates still being classified by the 
time-periods that cover their greatest contributions: All committees' ballots 
will include ten candidates. Whilst there was previously a one year waiting 
period after elimination from annual BBWAA consideration, there will now 
be no waiting period. The Today's Game and Modern Baseball committees will 
convene twice every 5 years, the Golden Days committee once every 5 years, 
and the Early Baseball committee once every 10 years.[7] Eras considered 
for yearly election are as follows: Additionally, the Hall of Fame has 
modified the criteria for which active executives can be considered for 
induction. All active executives age 70 or older may now have their careers 
reviewed as part of the Era Committee balloting process, regardless of 
the position they hold in an organization, and regardless of whether their 
body of work has been completed. Previously, active executives 65 years 
or older were eligible for consideration.[7] The following is a list of 
members of the Veterans Committee from its establishment in 1953 to its 
radical reformation in 2001, along with the dates of their membership. 
As of the 2011 election, the only Veterans Committee members to have been 
announced are those voting for the post-1972 Expansion Era candidates.[1] 
This 16-member committee was announced in November 2011, and conducted 
its first vote at the 2011 winter meetings as part of the 2012 voting process.[45] 
This 16-member committee was announced in October or November 2012, and 
conducted its first vote at the 2012 winter meetings as part of the 2013 
voting process. As of the 2010 election, the members of the Veterans Committee 
