Victor Pellot a.k.a. "Vic Power" [1] (November 1, 1927 – November 29, 2005) 
was a Puerto Rican Major League Baseball (MLB) first baseman. He played 
twelve seasons for the Philadelphia / Kansas City Athletics, Cleveland 
Indians, Minnesota Twins, Los Angeles / California Angels, and the Philadelphia 
Phillies, from 1954 through 1965. Power was the second Puerto Rican of 
African descent to play in MLB and the second Puerto Rican to play in the 
American League (AL), following Hiram Gabriel (Sosa) "Hi" Bithorn.[2] Power 
used the name Vic Power during his major league career, but played as Victor 
Pellot when he played winter baseball in Puerto Rico.[3] He was an AL All-Star 
for four seasons playing in five of the six All-Star games that were played, 
and won seven consecutive Gold Glove Awards. Pellot was born in Arecibo, 
Puerto Rico, the second child in a family of six. Pellot showed an interest 
in baseball at a young age, however his father didn't want him to play 
baseball and would punish him if he caught him doing so. When he was 13 
years old, his father died and it was only then that he was able to play 
the game he loved. His mother moved to the city of Caguas, there he attended 
and graduated from José Gautier Benítez High School.[4] In 1946 he started 
to practice with a local baseball team called the Senadores de San Juan 
(San Juan Senators) and learned many of his baseball skills. He was later 
invited to play for the Criollos de Caguas, where he was spotted by a New 
York Yankees scout. In 1949, he left for the City of Chicago and went to 
play for a minor league team in Drummondville, Quebec.[4] Power was signed 
by the Yankees in 1951, and sent to the Syracuse SkyChiefs of the Class 
AAA International League. In 1952, Power played for the Kansas City Blues 
of the Class AAA American Association, where he led the league in doubles 
and triples while having a .331 batting average. The next season, Power 
led the league with a .349 batting average.[5][6] However, despite his 
skills he was not invited to spring training in either year. The Yankees' 
owners at the time, Del Webb and Dan Topping, felt that Power's playing 
style and personality wasn't suited for the conservative style that they 
wanted a "black" player to represent as a member of the club.[7] Power 
dated light-skinned women, leading George Weiss, the general manager of 
the Yankees, to say that Power was "not the Yankee type".[6] The Yankees 
also had Johnny Mize at first base, and another top prospect, Bill Skowron, 
in their farm system. Skowron spent most of the 1953 season at first base, 
while Power played 121 games in the outfield.[8] When the Yankees had a 
need at the major leagues, they promoted Gus Triandos, a Caucasian player 
from Class AA, instead of Power.[6] The Yankees decided on Elston Howard 
to become the first black player in club history. Many blacks and Puerto 
Ricans protested in front of Yankee Stadium in response to what they believed 
to have been a racially motivated decision.[9] On December 16, 1953, he 
was traded by the New York Yankees with Don Bollweg, Jim Finigan, Johnny 
Gray, Bill Renna, Jim Robertson and $25,000 to the Philadelphia Athletics 
for Loren Babe, Harry Byrd, Tom Hamilton, Carmen Mauro and Eddie Robinson 
and thus became the first Puerto Rican to play for that team. Suffering 
from the racial discrimination which was rampant in the nation during that 
time, he could neither stay with the rest of the team at the same hotels 
nor be allowed to eat at the same restaurants as his white teammates. The 
Athletics moved to Kansas City in 1955, where he finished in second place 
in the batting race that season. He is one of only five batters, through 
August 2009, to have hit both a leadoff and walk-off home run in the same 
game (having done so in 1957), the others being Billy Hamilton (1893), 
Darin Erstad (2000), Reed Johnson (2003), and Ian Kinsler (2009).[10] In 
1958, Power was sent to the Cleveland Indians. During his 12-year career, 
he played with the Philadelphia and Kansas City Athletics (1954–58); Cleveland 
Indians (1958–61), Minnesota Twins (1962–64), Los Angeles Angels (1964), 
Philadelphia Phillies (1964) and California Angels (1965). Before retiring, 
Power won seven consecutive Gold Glove Awards from when the award was first 
introduced in 1958 to 1964. He made the American League All-Star team with 
the Kansas City Athletics in 1955 and 1956 and the Cleveland Indians in 
1959 and 1960 (two games were played both seasons). He was also voted the 
Minnesota Twins Most Valuable Player (MVP) in 1962. He has the record of 
having made one or more assists in 16 consecutive games.[11] He shares 
the record of making two unassisted double plays in one game, and he is 
one of 11 players to steal home plate twice in one game, and he also shares 
the record of being assists leader for six years in a row and of double 
plays in a single game. Among his career totals are the following: 1,716 
hits and 126 home runs, and he was only struck out 247 times out of 6,046 
at bats.[12] Pellot's choice of name caused resentment and alienation, 
particularly in his home land of Puerto Rico. In a letter to historian 
Bill Haber in 1993, Pellot gave his real, full name as Victor Felipe Pellot 
Pove; Pove being his mother's maiden name and Pellot his father's surname 
(as is traditional in Hispanic culture; see Roberto Clemente Walker). However, 
when Maximina Pove was in the first grade, her teacher changed her last 
name, changing the "v" to a "w" and adding an "r" at the end.[3] During 
Pellot's first two professional seasons, in the French-Canadian town of 
Drummondville, Quebec, Pellot went by his birth name, Victor Pellot. However, 
Pellot noticed that the mostly French-speaking crowd began to laugh whenever 
his name was announced. Initially, Pellot surmised that the crowd was laughing 
because he was black. This turned out to be incorrect, and Pellot soon 
learned that the real source of the laughter was not his race, but his 
last name: the similar-sounding word plotte is slang for "vagina" in the 
Quebec French.[13] In response, he played under the name of "Vic Power." 
He kept the name after getting promoted to the majors in United States, 
but retained "Pellot" when playing winter ball in Puerto Rico.[3] The circumstances 
behind the use of the "Pellot" and "Power" surnames were not known to most 
winter league fans at the time, and Pellot was occasionally accused of 
"selling out" to the culture and lifestyle of the US. Power spent his retirement 
in Guaynabo, Puerto Rico. The city built a ballpark, which he could see 
from the window of his apartment, and named it "Parque Victor Pellot" (Victor 
Pellot Park), after him. During the summers, he helped youngsters develop 
their baseball skills in both Puerto Rico and San Pedro de Macorís in the 
Dominican Republic.[5] According to historian Bill James, Pellot was probably 
a main reason why San Pedro de Macorís became "the world's richest source 
of baseball talent".[5] According to Pellot, young people would most likely 
stay away from trouble and have a better opportunity to enter college on 
sports scholarships if they practiced sports. Pellot also coached, and 
among his pupils, either as a coach or as an educator of the sport were 
future Major League Baseball players Roberto Alomar, José Oquendo, Jerry 
Morales, Willie Montañez and José Cruz.[citation needed] Pellot died on 
November 29, 2005 in San Juan, Puerto Rico from cancer at the age of 78. 
Power has been considered by many Puerto Ricans to be one of the island's 
greatest baseball players, a legend only surpassed by Roberto Clemente.[7] 
In 2005, he spoke about his baseball career in the American documentary 
Beisbol,[14] directed by Alan Swyer and narrated by Esai Morales, which 
covers the early influences and contributions of Hispanics to baseball. 
In 2000, the Cleveland Indians honored him by declaring him to be among 
its 100 all-time greatest players. He was named the 81st greatest first 
baseman in Major League history by historian Bill James in his book "The 
New Bill James Historical Baseball Abstract".[5] Power's unorthodox and 
often flashy approach to fielding first base proved over the years to be 
very influential. Although at the time he was often criticized by the press 
and his peers for fielding the ball using only one hand instead of two, 
stating it was "flanboyance", this would later become his trademark move.[3][7] 
More importantly, it anticipated a change in how the position is played: 
nowadays, virtually all first basemen field the ball one-handed (this because 
it increases their reach and provides for greater flexibility). Power is 
also remembered by baseball historians and fans for his sharp wit and dark, 
deadpan humor, a lot of which was directed at the racism and segregation 
he experienced during spring training in the southern United States. One 
of the more celebrated examples of his dark wit by which Pellot subverted 
the ugly rejection experienced through institutionalized racism, documented 
in David Maraniss's biography of Roberto Clemente, has Pellot entering 
a whites-only (segregated) restaurant while playing for Syracuse. Upon 
being told by the waitress that the restaurant didn't serve "Negroes", 
Pellot promptly told the waitress not to worry, that he didn't eat "Negroes".[5] 
