Vigoro is a team sport, played mainly by women in Australia, that originally 
combined elements of cricket and tennis, although in its current form it 
may be more similar to cricket and baseball.[1] The game was invented in 
1901 by Englishman John George Grant.[a][1] In the original version tennis 
rackets were used and the wicket consisted of six stumps. On 17 October 
1902, a match was played before the MCC committee at Lord's.[3] An eleven 
led by real tennis and rackets player Eustace Miles, and including Wimbledon 
champions Lawrence and Reginald Doherty, defeated the opposition, led by 
Surrey batsman Bobby Abel. Miles' team led after the first innings by 73 
to 18 runs and won by an innings after Abel's team made only 39 runs in 
the second innings.[4] That same month the game was also played at Crystal 
Palace.[5] Games were also played that year, and in 1903, at London's Queen's 
Club.[1] In England interest in the game died down after a few years but 
it managed to gain a foothold in Australia where it was introduced during 
World War I. A key figure in the promotion of the game in Australia was 
Ettie Dodge, who was President (1919–66) of the New South Wales Women's 
Vigoro Association and foundation president (1932–66) of the All Australian 
[Vigoro] Association. Ettie's husband had met John George Grant in England. 
When the game was introduced to New South Wales schools in the 1920s, Dodge 
& Co. began selling vigoro equipment. Grant died in 1927 and bequeathed 
the trademark and copyright of the game to Ettie.[6] Vigoro is played on 
a pitch which shall be no shorter than 17.68 m [58'],[7] which is slightly 
shorter in length than a cricket pitch. The balls are much lighter than 
those for cricket, and the bat has a different shape with a long handle 
resembling the shape of a paddle.[8] There are two teams of 12 players 
which will bat and field two innings each (except in the event that a team 
wins with an innings in hand). The aim of the game is for a team to score 
more runs than the opposition team. There are no overs and the batsmen 
bat from one end only. Two bowlers bowl alternately and can incorporate 
any type of "throwing" action as long as the ball is released above the 
shoulder (i.e. not underarm). If the ball is hit forward of the crease, 
the batter must run.[9] A run is completed each time both batters safely 
make it to the crease at the opposite end of the pitch. Fours and sixes 
also apply where the batter hits the ball past the boundary markers. In 
addition to shots made off the bat, byes and leg-byes add to the team's 
score. Players may be dismissed by the same methods as in cricket – bowled, 
caught, run out, stumped, leg before wicket, hit wicket, handled ball and 
hit the ball twice. Teams from Tasmania, New South Wales and Queensland 
compete annually for the All Australian Vigoro Titles. These teams compete 
across four divisions – State (Senior) One and Two, Veterans and Juniors. 
New South Wales are the current champions in the State One, State Two and 
Veterans divisions, whilst the Junior (under 18s) title is held by Queensland. 
The 2012 Australian Vigoro titles were held in Townsville, Queensland in 
late March. New South Wales, Tasmania and Queensland[10] are the only States 
in Australia which host local competitions. The 2010 Australian Vigoro 
Titles were held in Bendigo, the first time they had been contested in 
