Villa Clara is one of the provinces of Cuba. It is located in the central 
region of the island bordering with the Atlantic at north, Matanzas Province 
by west, Sancti Spiritus Province by east, and Cienfuegos Province on the 
South. Villa Clara shares with Cienfuegos and Sancti Spiritus on the south 
the Escambray Mountain Range. Its main cities are Santa Clara (the capital), 
Remedios, Sagua La Grande, Camajuani, Caibarién, Ranchuelo, Placetas, and 
Manicaragua. The current provinces of Cienfuegos, Sancti Spíritus, and 
Villa Clara were once all part of the now extinct province of Las Villas, 
but Villa Clara is still referred some times just as "Las Villas" using 
the shorter old name. Santa Clara was the capital of historical Las Villas 
and still capital of Villa Clara province. The name itself, Spanish for 
"The Cities", refers to the four original 16th and 17th-century cities 
founded in this vast territory: San Juan de los Remedios, Sancti Spíritus, 
Santísima Trinidad and Gloriosa Santa Clara. During pre-Spanish settlement 
in Cuba, what now is Villa Clara province was populated by Taíno people 
with chieftains of Sabanaque (north west), Sabana (north east), and Cubanacan, 
literally "The Middle Land" in the center where Santa Clara city is located 
nowadays. In this region from the eastern landing point of the Spanish 
was where Columbus believed the "King of India" was living. In early colonial 
Cuba, historical province Las Villas was center to cattle industry but 
by the 18th and 19th centuries it had shifted to sugar production with 
a large concentration of mills. At the beginning of the 20th century it 
had the highest percentage of land farms (90%).[2] In 1950 it was second 
to Havana in manufacturing establishments. After Castro's revolution in 
the 1960s it still led in sugar production on the island, but in the late 
80s and 90s after the collapse of the Soviet Union and lack of support 
thereof, most of the already inefficient mills were closed down, some of 
them disassembled, while others became museums. Only the most efficient 
mills are still producing sugar. Since then the province concentrated its 
efforts on building beach resorts. The country's first ever transsexual 
municipal delegate was elected in Villa Clara in early 2013. Jose Agustin 
Hernandez, who goes by the name "Adela", is a resident of the town of Caibarien 
and works as a nurse electrocardiogram specialist. In Cuba, delegates are 
not professional politicians and, therefore, do not receive a government 
salary.[3] Sugar, the commodity that the Cuban economy once relied upon, 
was primarily based in the plains in the north of the province, and several 
large mills provided employment to many people. Now in the newly restructured 
Cuban economy, most of these mills have been abandoned and the economy 
is instead focused on newly built beach resorts in the north cays. Sugar 
and tobacco are still the two most important agricultural commodities of 
the province. The northern coast of Villa Clara is dotted with numerous 
cays (part of the Sabana-Camaguey Archipelago), and there are many coral 
reefs, sandy beaches, and newly constructed touristic resorts. The Cays 
are a capricious cluster of some 500 islands, strewn along a sea of varying 
shades of blues and greens off the northern coast of the central province 
of Villa Clara and close to the second largest coral barrier reef in the 
world. It's a tropical paradise with more than 17 km of fine-white sand 
beaches. Villa Clara Cays, covering more than 77 844 hectares, are a veritable 
wildlife refuge and provide a habitat for some 248 species of plants. The 
most precious jewels are Cayo Las Brujas, Cayo Ensenachos and Cayo Santa 
Maria, renowned for their immaculate landscape of incredible beauty, with 
sugary-white sand beaches and crystal-clear waters, fringed by autochthonous 
vegetation and connected to Caibarien, a small fishing town on the Cuban 
mainland, by a 48 km causeway stretching over the sea -accorded an international 
prize for its harmonious combination of nature and engineering in an area 
declared a World Biosphere Reserve- thus enabling visitors to access the 
cays directly from Santa Clara City, site of the international airport. 
The causeway has a total of 46 bridges especially designed to allow the 
flow of sea water, therefore protecting both the biodiversity and sustainability 
of the area. There are smaller airfields near most of the main towns, plus 
a small international terminal in Cayo Las Brujas for the operation of 
small and medium size charter aircraft. Villa Clara Cays, located approximately 
300 km from Havana, are part of the Jardines del Rey archipelago, the largest 
archipelago surrounding Cuba which extends 465 km along the northern coast 
of the country. A site of legends, it is said that this island, maze of 
singular biodiversity, was once a haven for pirates and buccaneers ready 
to pounce on ship passing along Cuba's shores. Cayo Las Brujas takes its 
name from an old legend about a young couple whose love was thwarted by 
a jealous uncle, who in turn is the namesake of another islet: Cayo Borracho, 
which means drunkard. The remains of the San Pascual, a ship that ran aground 
many years ago, can be observed a mile away from the cay. Built in San 
Francisco, California and launched in 1919, the ship evokes the presence 
of American writer Ernest Hemingway in the area. From its deck, Cuban painter 
Leopold Romañach found inspiration for some of his famous marine landscapes. 
Cayo Ensenachos is the smallest of the three cays but it's a refuge for 
22 endemic plants and 39 wildlife species. Shaped like a horseshoe, the 
islet was originally an aboriginal settlement. The beach is always calm 
due to the position of the cay which prevents the large waves from hitting 
the shore with force. Cay Santa Maria is also known as the White Rose of 
Jardines del Rey. The cay was named after the flagship of Christopher Columbus's 
fleet on his maiden voyage to the New World. Legend has it that this strip 
of land-some 13 km long and 2 km in width- is haunted by the spirit of 
Rosa Maria Coraje, a woman who hid aboard a ship in a desperate attempt 
to find both paradise and her beloved. She landed on the cay and managed 
to survive hiding in the marshes, among the mangroves and feeding on fish, 
until she finally discovered her dearly-loved in a neighboring cay. Around 
Santa Clara, the land rises into the Alturas de Santa Clara. The highest 
point in the Santa Clara region is in the Alturas, at 464 m (1,522 ft) 
above sea level, while the south, dominated by the Escambray Mountains, 
reach elevations of over 900 m (3,000 ft). Villa Clara also has numerous 
lakes, which are used for both water sports and fishing. The largest Cuban 
river to drain into the Atlantic, Río Sagua la Grande, is also in Villa 
Clara province. In 2004, the province of Villa Clara had a population of 
817,070.[4] With a total area of 8,412.41 km2 (3,248.05 sq mi),[6] the 
province had a population density of 97.1/km2 (251/sq mi). Las Brujas Beach 
Santa Maria Cay and Beach Ensenachos Beach Resort at Ensenachos Cay Santa 
Clara's pedestrian boulevard Camajuaní Valley El Salto del Hanabanilla 
