Vincent Edward "Vin" Scully (born November 29, 1927) is an American sportscaster. 
His 67 seasons with the Dodgers, starting in Brooklyn in 1950 and ending 
in 2016, constitute the longest tenure of any broadcaster with a single 
team in professional sports history, and he is second only to Tommy Lasorda 
(by one year) in terms of number of years with the Dodgers organization 
in any capacity. He retired in 2016, ending his record-breaking run as 
their play-by-play announcer. In his final season behind the microphone, 
Scully announced most Dodger home games (and selected road games) on SportsNet 
LA television and KLAC radio. He is known for his dulcet voice, lyrically 
descriptive style, and signature introduction to Dodger games: "It's time 
for Dodger baseball! Hi, everybody, and a very pleasant good (afternoon/evening) 
to you, wherever you may be." Chris Carter, creator and producer of The 
X-Files, named the character Dana Scully after him. He is considered by 
many to be the greatest baseball broadcaster of all time, according to 
fan rankings, Bleacher Report and Fox Sports.[1] Born in The Bronx, Scully 
grew up in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan.[2] He worked delivering 
beer and mail, pushing garment racks, and cleaning silver in the basement 
of the Pennsylvania Hotel in New York City.[3] His father Vincent Aloysius 
was a silk salesman; his mother Bridget was a Roman Catholic homemaker 
of Irish descent from whom her son inherited his red hair. Scully attended 
high school at the Fordham Preparatory School in The Bronx. His biological 
father died of pneumonia when Scully was 4, and his mother later remarried 
to an English merchant sailor named Allan Reeve, whom Scully considered 
"my dad."[4] Scully discovered his love of baseball at age 8, when he saw 
the results of the 2nd game of the 1936 World Series at a laundromat and 
felt a pang of sympathy for the badly defeated New York Giants. Since Scully 
lived near the Polo Grounds and because he was a member of the PAL and 
CYO, he was able to attend many games for free and became a "very big Giants 
fan".[5] Scully decided at eight years old that he wanted to become a sports 
announcer, when he became fascinated with the football broadcasts on the 
radio.[citation needed] After serving in the United States Navy for two 
years, Scully began his career as a student broadcaster and journalist 
at Fordham University. While at Fordham, he helped found its FM radio station 
WFUV (which now presents a Vin Scully Lifetime Achievement Award each year), 
was assistant sports editor for Volume 28 of The Fordham Ram his senior 
year, sang in a barbershop quartet, played center field for the Fordham 
Rams baseball team (wearing number 17),[6] called radio broadcasts for 
Rams baseball, football, and basketball, earned a degree, and sent about 
150 letters to stations along the Eastern seaboard. He received only one 
response, from CBS Radio affiliate WTOP in Washington, which made him a 
fill-in. Scully was then recruited by Red Barber, the sports director of 
the CBS Radio Network, for its college football coverage. Scully impressed 
his boss with his coverage of a November 1949 University of Maryland versus 
Boston University football game from frigid Fenway Park in Boston, despite 
having to do so from the stadium roof. Expecting an enclosed press box, 
Scully had left his coat and gloves at his hotel, but never mentioned his 
discomfort on the air.[7] Barber mentored Scully and told him that if he 
wanted to be a successful sports announcer he should never be a "homer" 
(openly showing a rooting interest for the team that employs you), never 
listen to other announcers, and keep his opinions to himself. In 1950, 
Scully joined Red Barber and Connie Desmond in the Brooklyn Dodgers radio 
and television booths. When Barber got into a salary dispute with World 
Series sponsor Gillette in 1953, Scully took Barber's spot for the 1953 
World Series. At the age of 25, Scully became the youngest person to broadcast 
a World Series game (a record that stands to this day). Barber left the 
Dodgers after the 1953 season to work for the New York Yankees. Scully 
eventually became the Dodgers' principal announcer. Scully announced Dodgers 
games in Brooklyn until 1957, after which the club moved to Los Angeles. 
During that time, Dodgers broadcasts were heard over WMGM radio (1050) 
on the AM dial, as well as WOR-TV (channel 9) both in New York.[8] Scully 
accompanied the Dodgers to their new location beginning with the 1958 season, 
and quickly became popular in Southern California. During the Dodgers' 
first four seasons in Los Angeles, inexperienced baseball fans had difficulty 
following the action in the very large Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, and 
it soon became common for them to bring transistor radios to the games 
to hear Scully and partner Jerry Doggett describe the action. This practice 
continued even after the team moved to the much smaller Dodger Stadium 
for the 1962 baseball season. Radio and television engineers often had 
difficulty compensating for the sound of Scully's play-by-play reverberating 
through the stands at Dodgers home games.[9] In 1964, the New York Yankees 
offered Scully the opportunity to succeed Mel Allen as their lead play-by-play 
announcer.[10] Scully chose to remain with the Dodgers, however, and his 
popularity in Los Angeles had become such that in 1976 Dodger fans voted 
him the "most memorable personality" in the history of the franchise.[11] 
Before 1966, local announcers exclusively called the World Series. Typically, 
the Gillette Company, the Commissioner of Baseball and NBC television would 
choose the announcers, who would represent each of the teams that were 
in the World Series for the respective year. For the 1966 World Series, 
Curt Gowdy[12] called half of each game before ceding the microphone to 
Vin Scully in Los Angeles, and Chuck Thompson in Baltimore. Scully was 
not satisfied with the arrangement[13] as he said "What about the road? 
My fans won't be able to hear me." In Game 1 of the 1966 World Series, 
Scully called the first 4½ innings. When Gowdy inherited the announcing 
reigns, Scully was so upset that he refused to say another word. Unlike 
the modern style in which multiple sportscasters have an on-air conversation 
(usually with one functioning as play-by-play announcer and another as 
color commentator), Scully and his broadcast partners Jerry Doggett (1956–1987) 
and Ross Porter (1977–2004) called games solo with Scully working the entire 
game except for the 3rd and 7th innings. When Doggett retired after the 
1987 season, he was replaced by Hall-of-Fame Dodgers pitcher Don Drysdale, 
who previously broadcast games for the California Angels. Drysdale died 
in his hotel room following a heart attack before a game against the Montreal 
Expos in 1993, resulting in a very difficult broadcast for Scully and Porter, 
who were told of the death but could not mention it on-air until Drysdale's 
family had been notified and the official announcement of the death made.[14] 
Scully announced the news of his death by saying, "Never have I been asked 
to make an announcement that hurts me as much as this one. And I say it 
to you as best I can with a broken heart." The Dodgers announced on August 
28, 2015, via a series of cue cards presented by comedian Jimmy Kimmel 
on the Dodger Stadium video board that Scully would be back for the 2016 
season, his 67th with the Dodgers.[15] At a press conference August 29, 
Scully said 2016 would probably be his final year. "I mean, how much longer 
can you go on fooling people? So yeah, I would be saying, 'Dear God, if 
you give me next year, I will hang it up.'"[16] Scully's final regular 
season game broadcast from Dodger Stadium occurred on September 25, 2016. 
His final game was broadcast from San Francisco's AT&T Park on October 
2, 2016.[17] Like Red Barber and Mel Allen in the 1940s, Scully retained 
his credentials in football even as his baseball career blossomed. From 
1975 to 1982, Scully announced the televised National Football League games 
for CBS Sports, teaming with several different color analysts including 
Sonny Jurgensen, Alex Hawkins, George Allen, Jim Brown, John Madden, and 
Hank Stram. One of his most famous NFL calls was that of Dwight Clark's 
touchdown catch in the NFC Championship Game on January 10, 1982 (which 
Scully called with Stram as his final NFL telecast for CBS), that put the 
San Francisco 49ers into Super Bowl XVI. Montana...looking, looking, throwing 
in the endzone...Clark caught it! Dwight Clark!...It's a madhouse at Candlestick! 
Scully also contributed to the network's tennis and PGA Tour golf coverage 
in the late 1970s and early 1980s, usually working the golf events with 
Pat Summerall, Ken Venturi, and Ben Wright. From 1975 to 1982, he was part 
of the team that covered the Masters[18] tournament for CBS. Scully's network 
commitments led to his working a reduced schedule with the Dodgers, who 
hired Ross Porter to help pick up the slack. In 1977, Scully began his 
first of two stints calling baseball for CBS Radio, broadcasting the All-Star 
Game through 1982 (usually paired with Brent Musburger) and the World Series 
from 1979 to 1982 (alongside Sparky Anderson). Scully decided to leave 
CBS in favor of a job calling baseball games for NBC (beginning in 1983) 
following a dispute over assignment prominence (according to CBS Sports 
producer Terry O'Neil, in the book The Game Behind the Game[19]). CBS decided 
going into the 1981 NFL season that John Madden, whom CBS had hired in 
1979 and who had called games alongside Frank Glieber and Gary Bender his 
first two years, was going to be the star color commentator of their NFL 
television coverage. But they had trouble figuring out who was going to 
be his play-by-play partner, since Scully was in a battle with CBS' lead 
play-by-play announcer Pat Summerall for the position. At the time Scully 
was the number two announcer for CBS, a position he had held since 1975, 
and was calling games alongside the former Kansas City Chiefs head coach 
Hank Stram, who had been promoted from CBS' number three broadcast team 
alongside Curt Gowdy. To resolve the situation, both Scully and Summerall 
were paired with Madden[20] in four-week stretches, which coincided with 
each of their respective absences due to other engagements. While Summerall 
was away calling the US Open tennis tournament for CBS as he did every 
September, Scully called the first four weeks of the season alongside Madden. 
After that Scully went on to cover the National League Championship Series 
and World Series for CBS Radio, as he had done for the past few Octobers, 
and Summerall returned to the broadcast booth to work with Madden. Scully 
then teamed with Stram for the remainder of the NFL season. After the eighth 
week of the NFL season, CBS Sports decided that Summerall meshed more with 
Madden than Scully did and it named him to be the announcer who would call 
Super Bowl XVI for CBS on January 24, 1982, at the Pontiac Silverdome.[20] 
An angry Scully, who felt that his intelligence had been insulted by the 
move, was assigned as a consolation prize that year's NFC Championship 
Game, which he called alongside Stram. Summerall took Stram's place alongside 
Jack Buck to call the game over CBS Radio. Outside of Southern California, 
Vin Scully is remembered as NBC television's lead baseball broadcaster 
from 1983 to 1989. Besides calling the Saturday Game of the Week for NBC, 
Scully called three World Series (1984, 1986, and 1988), four National 
League Championship Series (1983, 1985, 1987, and 1989), and four All-Star 
Games (1983, 1985, 1987, and 1989). Scully also reworked his Dodgers schedule 
during this period, broadcasting home games on the radio, and road games 
for the Dodgers television network, with Fridays and Saturdays off so he 
could work for NBC. Teaming with Joe Garagiola (who was the full-time lead 
play-by-play man for NBC's baseball telecasts from 1976 to 1982 before 
converting into a color commentary role to work with Scully) for NBC telecasts 
(with the exception of 1989, when he was paired with Tom Seaver after Garagiola 
left NBC Sports following the 1988 World Series due to a contract dispute), 
Scully was on hand for several key moments in baseball history: Fred Lynn 
hitting the first grand slam in All-Star Game history (1983); the 1984 
Detroit Tigers winning the World Series (along the way, Scully called Tigers 
pitcher Jack Morris' no-hitter against the Chicago White Sox on April 7); 
Ozzie Smith's game-winning home run in Game 5 of the 1985 National League 
Championship Series; the New York Mets' miracle rally in Game 6 of the 
1986 World Series; the 1987 All-Star Game in Oakland, which was deadlocked 
at 0–0 before Tim Raines broke up the scoreless tie with a triple in the 
top of the 13th inning; the first official night game in the history of 
Chicago's Wrigley Field (August 9, 1988); Kirk Gibson's game-winning home 
run in Game 1 of the 1988 World Series; and chatting with former President 
of the United States Ronald Reagan (who said to Scully, "I've been out 
of work for six months and maybe there's a future here.") in the booth 
during the 1989 All-Star Game in Anaheim. On Saturday, June 3, 1989, Scully 
was doing the play-by-play for the NBC Game of the Week in St. Louis, where 
the Cardinals beat the Chicago Cubs in 10 innings. Meanwhile, the Dodgers 
were playing a series in Houston, where Scully flew to be on hand to call 
the Sunday game of the series. However, the Saturday night game between 
the teams was going into extra innings when Scully arrived in town, so 
he went to the Astrodome instead of his hotel. He picked up the play-by-play, 
helping to relieve the other Dodger announcers, who were doing both television 
and radio, and broadcast the final 13 innings (after already calling 10 
innings in St. Louis), as the game went 22 innings. He broadcast 23 innings 
in one day in two different cities. Laryngitis prevented Scully from calling 
Game 2 of the 1989 National League Championship Series between the San 
Francisco Giants and Chicago Cubs. Bob Costas, who was working the American 
League Championship Series between Oakland and Toronto with Tony Kubek 
for NBC, was flown from Toronto to Chicago to fill in that evening (an 
off day for the ALCS). The final Major League Baseball game that Scully 
called for NBC was Game 5 of the 1989 NLCS on October 9. There, the Giants 
led by first baseman Will Clark clinched their first National League pennant 
since 1962. After the 1989 season, NBC (along with ABC, with whom NBC had 
shared baseball coverage since 1976), lost the television rights to cover 
Major League Baseball to CBS. For the first time since 1946, NBC would 
not televise baseball. In the aftermath, Scully said of NBC losing baseball, 
"It's a passing of a great American tradition. It is sad. I really and 
truly feel that. It will leave a vast window, to use a Washington word, 
where people will not get Major League Baseball and I think that's a tragedy. 
... It's a staple that's gone. I feel for people who come to me and say 
how they miss it and, I hope, me." Scully also served as an announcer for 
NBC's PGA Tour golf coverage during his time at the network, usually teaming 
with Lee Trevino. After the National League Championship Series in 1989, 
Scully's NBC contract was up and he left to focus primarily on his duties 
with the Dodgers. Scully also returned to being the national radio announcer 
for the World Series, since CBS Radio gave him the position that Jack Buck 
had vacated in order to become the primary announcer of CBS-TV coverage 
of Major League Baseball. Scully's first assignment was the 1990 World 
Series and he remained in that role until 1997,[21] working with Johnny 
Bench for the first four years and Jeff Torborg for the final three. After 
ESPN Radio acquired the World Series radio rights from CBS in 1998, Scully 
was offered a continued play-by-play role but declined.[22] Instead, ESPN 
Radio used Sunday Night Baseball television play-by-play man Jon Miller 
for their World Series coverage for the next thirteen years. From 1991 
to 1996, Scully broadcast the annual Skins Game for ABC, having previously 
called the event for NBC from 1983 to 1989. He also called the Senior Skins 
Game for ABC from 1992 to 2000, as well as various golf events for TBS 
during this period. In 1999, Scully was the master of ceremonies for MasterCard's 
Major League Baseball All-Century Team before the start of Game 2 of the 
World Series. The Dodgers management announced in February 2006 that it 
had extended Scully's contract through the 2008 baseball season for about 
$3 million per year. For health reasons, beginning around 2005, Scully 
no longer called most non-playoff games played east of Phoenix. Exceptions 
to this rule were the 2007 opening series in Milwaukee, a series against 
the Chicago Cubs in 2007, a series against the Boston Red Sox in 2010, 
and the series in Australia against the Diamondbacks that opened the 2014 
baseball season. He was also not normally scheduled to announce Dodgers 
games (on either radio or TV) that were televised by ESPN on Sunday Night 
Baseball or by Fox on the Saturday Game of the Week. As of his final season 
in 2016, Scully called approximately 100 games per season (all home games 
and select road games in San Francisco, San Diego, and Anaheim)[23] for 
both flagship radio station KLAC and television outlet SportsNet LA. Scully 
was simulcast for the first three innings of each of his appearances, then 
announced the remaining innings only for the TV audience. If Scully was 
calling the game, Charley Steiner took over play-by-play on radio beginning 
with the fourth inning, with Rick Monday as color commentator.[23] If Scully 
was not calling the game, either Joe Davis or Steiner would call the entire 
game on television with Orel Hershiser and Nomar Garciaparra on color commentary.[24] 
while Monday, now doing play-play, joined Kevin Kennedy on radio.[25] Through 
2014, in the event the Dodgers were in postseason play, Scully called the 
first three and last three innings of each radio broadcast alone, with 
Steiner and Monday handling the middle innings. Scully missed most of the 
Dodgers' opening homestand of the 2012 MLB season (the first five out of 
six games) because of an illness. Scully returned to the announcers' booth 
on April 15, 2012, which was the 65th anniversary of Jackie Robinson's 
breaking of the color barrier in baseball. It was just the second time 
in 35 years the legendary sports broadcaster had missed a Dodger Stadium 
home opener: The first time was when he was busy broadcasting the Masters 
golf tournament for CBS in 1977.[26] On January 31, 2016, Scully announced 
that he planned to retire from broadcasting after the conclusion of the 
2016 season; his final game was the team's October 2 finale at San Francisco. 
Scully left open the possibility of calling postseason games (but not the 
World Series) if the Dodgers were to advance; in September, however, Scully 
stated that he would retire after the end of the regular season and not 
call postseason games because he did not want to "say goodbye 12 different 
times." Scully was assigned a total of six road games for the 2016 season: 
the opening game in San Diego, two games in Anaheim, and the entirety of 
the three-game regular-season closing series in San Francisco. Scully was 
honored by the Dodgers during their September 23 home game against the 
Rockies, which featured a pre-game ceremony that paid tribute to his career. 
The ceremony included speeches by Commissioner of Baseball Rob Manfred, 
Sandy Koufax, Clayton Kershaw, Mayor Eric Garcetti, the team's Spanish 
play-by-play man Jaime Jarrin, Kevin Costner, and Scully himself. The team 
also unveiled the result of a poll asking fans to determine Vin Scully's 
most memorable call, which was won by Kirk Gibson's 1988 World Series home 
run.[27] His final home game was on September 25, 2016, against the visiting 
Colorado Rockies. The Dodgers ended up winning on a 10th inning walk-off 
home run by Charlie Culberson and in doing so clinched the NL West Division 
title.[28] The final broadcast of his career was the Dodgers' October 2 
game at AT&T Park against the San Francisco Giants.[29] Scully's commentary 
during his final game was simulcast in its entirety on radio, instead of 
only the first three innings.[30] After the game, he offered a prayer and 
a final message:[31] In 1970, ABC Sports producer Roone Arledge tried to 
lure Scully to his network to call play-by-play for the then-new Monday 
Night Football games, but Scully's commitment to the Dodgers forced him 
to reject the offer.[32] Instead, the role went to Keith Jackson for the 
initial year, before being replaced by Frank Gifford (from 1971–1985, when 
Gifford was in return, replaced by Al Michaels while Gifford converted 
into a color commentator up until 1997). Besides his sportscasting work, 
Scully was the uncredited narrator for the short-lived NBC sitcom Occasional 
Wife. Scully also co-hosted the Tournament of Roses Parade with Elizabeth 
Montgomery for ABC in 1967, served as the host for the NBC game show It 
Takes Two in 1969–70, and in 1973 hosted The Vin Scully Show, a weekday 
afternoon talk-variety show on CBS. In 1977, he hosted the prime-time Challenge 
of the Sexes for CBS. Scully was the announcer in the popular Sony PlayStation–exclusive 
MLB video game series by 989 Sports for a number of years. Scully has since 
retired from announcing for video games, with his final year involving 
the video game MLB 2005. Matt Vasgersian, Eric Karros, and Steve Lyons 
(and formerly Dave Campbell and Rex Hudler) have since taken over as the 
lead announcers in the video game series, which was retitled MLB: The Show. 
Scully appears as himself in the 1999 film For Love of the Game, has a 
brief cameo (along with then-Dodgers partner Jerry Doggett) in the 1961 
film Bachelor in Paradise, appears as a CBS news reporter in the 1960 film 
Wake Me When It's Over, provides the opening narration in the 1966 film 
Fireball 500, and can be heard calling baseball games in the films Experiment 
in Terror (1962), Zebra in the Kitchen (1965), The Party (1968), and The 
Bucket List (2007), as well as in episodes of TV series including General 
Electric Theater, Alcoa Premiere, Mister Ed, The Joey Bishop Show, The 
Fugitive, Highway to Heaven, and Brooklyn Bridge.[33] The surname of the 
Dana Scully character on the television show The X-Files is an homage to 
Vin Scully, as the show's creator Chris Carter is a Dodgers fan; Scully 
himself can be heard calling a game in the Season 6 episode "The Unnatural". 
Harry Shearer has impersonated Scully in a sketch for Saturday Night Live,[34] 
and has used the voice for The Simpsons when the storyline includes the 
fictional team the Springfield Isotopes.[35] San Francisco Giants broadcaster 
Jon Miller is known for his impersonation of Scully.[36] Chris Cox has 
appeared on the comedy podcast series Sklarbro Country as the character 
"Racist Vin Scully".[37] Scully received the Ford Frick Award from the 
National Baseball Hall of Fame in 1982,[38] and was honored with a Lifetime 
Achievement Emmy Award for sportscasting and induction into the National 
Radio Hall of Fame in 1995. The National Sportscasters and Sportswriters 
Association has named Scully as National Sportscaster of the Year three 
times (1965, 1978, 1982) and California Sportscaster of the Year 32 times, 
and inducted him into its Hall of Fame in 1991.[39] He was the 1992 Hall 
of Fame inductee of the American Sportscasters Association, which also 
named him Sportscaster of the Century (2000) and top sportscaster of all-time 
on its Top 50 list (2009).[40][41] The California Sports Hall of Fame inducted 
Scully in 2008.[42] Scully was inducted into the NAB Broadcasting Hall 
of Fame in 2009. On May 11, 2009, he was awarded the Ambassador Award of 
Excellence by the LA Sports & Entertainment Commission.[43] On an episode 
of MLB Network's series Prime 9 about the nine greatest baseball broadcasters 
of all-time, Scully was named #1.[44] Scully has a star on the Hollywood 
Walk of Fame at 6675 Hollywood Blvd. Since 2001, the press box at Dodger 
Stadium has been named for Scully,[45] and a street within the team's former 
Dodgertown spring training facility in Vero Beach, Florida was named "Vin 
Scully Way".[46] Scully served as the Grand Marshal for the 2014 Tournament 
of Roses Parade.[47] Also, he participated aboard the Los Angeles Dodgers' 
50th anniversary float in the 2008 Tournament of Roses Parade. On September 
5, 2014, Bud Selig presented him with the Commissioner's Historic Achievement 
Award. He was the 14th recipient and (after Rachel Robinson) second non-player 
to receive the award, which was created to recognize accomplishments and 
contributions of historical significance to the game of baseball.[48] On 
January 29, 2016, the Los Angeles City Council in a unanimous vote, renamed 
Elysian Park Avenue to Vin Scully Avenue, changing the address of Dodger 
Stadium to 1000 Vin Scully Ave.[49] July 8, 2016 was dubbed "Vin Scully 
Day" by acting governor of California, Kevin de León while Governor Jerry 
Brown and Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom were on vacation. On September 
23, 2016 at a pre-game ceremony at the Dodger Stadium, the current Mayor 
of Los Angeles Eric Garcetti, presented Vin Scully with the Key to the 
City of Los Angeles.[50] Scully has endured a pair of personal tragedies 
in his life. In 1972, his 35-year-old wife, Joan Crawford, died of an accidental 
medical overdose; the couple had been married for 15 years. In late 1973, 
he married Sandra Hunt,[51] who had two children of her own, and they soon 
had a child together. Scully's eldest son, Michael, died in a helicopter 
crash at the age of 33 while working for the ARCO Transportation Company. 
He was inspecting oil pipelines for leaks near Fort Tejon, California in 
the immediate aftermath of the Northridge earthquake in January 1994. Although 
Michael's death still haunts him, Scully, a devout Roman Catholic,[52] 
said (while being interviewed by Bryant Gumbel on HBO's Real Sports with 
Bryant Gumbel in July 2005) that he credits his faith and being able to 
dive back into his work with helping him ease the burden and grief. He 
expressed the same views to the National Catholic Register in 2013, prior 
to the playoffs. He has 4 children, 2 stepchildren, 16 grandchildren, and 
3 great-grandchildren. The first biography of Scully, Pull Up a Chair: 
The Vin Scully Story, written by Curt Smith, was published in 2009.[53] 
For many years, Scully reportedly did not attend (or even watch on TV) 
a baseball game he was not announcing. It was not until 2004, when he and 
then-Dodgers owner Frank McCourt attended a game at Fenway Park, that Scully 
went to a pro baseball game as a spectator.[citation needed] Scully and 
McCourt took in another game at Fenway in 2010. Scully lives in Westlake 
