Vincent J. Naimoli (born September 16, 1937 in Paterson, New Jersey[1]) 
is an American businessman, and the first owner of the Major League Baseball 
team, the Tampa Bay Devil Rays.[2] Naimoli's father was an Italian immigrant 
who worked for the New York City Subway system and became a self-taught 
stationary engineer. Naimoli attended the University of Notre Dame, graduating 
in 1959 and earning a master's degree in Mechanical Engineering from New 
Jersey Institute of Technology in 1962.[3] Naimoli received his Masters 
of Business Administration from Fairleigh Dickinson University in 1964, 
and completed Harvard University Business School’s advanced management 
program in 1974.[4] Naimoli still attends Irish athletic events regularly. 
Naimoli has three daughters from his first marriage and one daughter from 
his second marriage. Naimoli is currently a member of the Fairleigh Dickinson 
University Board of Trustees. On Wednesday, October 5, 2011 the Naimoli 
Family Baseball Complex on the Metropolitan Campus of Fairliegh Dickson 
University was dedicated. Naimoli negotiated a naming-rights deal with 
Tropicana Products for Tropicana Field, with the team paying for improvements 
to the stadium and other auxiliary facilities. Naimoli oversaw a design 
for the stadium with asymmetrical outfield dimensions and dirt base paths, 
and seats located close to the field of play. FieldTurf was added before 
the start of the 2000 season.[5] Naimoli was the founder and first owner 
of the Tampa Bay Devil Rays, a name which was later shortened to the Tampa 
Bay Rays.[5][6] Naimoli is famous for his thrifty ways. He refused to purchase 
internet access and an email system for the Rays to keep costs down, as 
he felt email was a fad.[7] He also made waves with his policy of enforcement 
of not allowing outside food against ballpark patrons erupted into an incident 
in which an elderly woman with diabetes was prevented from bringing food 
in to the park to regulate her sugar levels.[7] As a result, the woman 
had to sit in her tour bus for the duration of the game. Naimoil has been 
trying to sell his 10-acre mansion[8] in the elite Avila community for 
at least three years in order to move into a smaller property. As a long-time 
resident of Tampa, Naimoli received the very first "Bridging the Bay" award 
in 1996, recognizing him as the individual who has done the most to unite 
the citizens of Hillsborough and Pinellas counties. He also has received 
similar community service awards from the Urban League, the Jewish National 
Fund, the Tampa Sports Club, Boys and Girls Clubs and the Multiple Sclerosis 
Society. He received an honorary monogram from the Notre Dame Monogram 
Club in 1999. Naimoli, who received an MBA in 1964 from Fairleigh Dickinson 
University, contributed $1 million in 2007 to be used towards the construction 
of a baseball complex at his alma mater. The gift paid for the 2011 construction 
of the Naimoli Family Baseball Complex on FDU's Teaneck, New Jersey campus.[9][10] 
In 2006, Naimoli made a contribution of $5 million to his undergraduate 
alma mater, the University of Notre Dame, to be used towards a $24.7 million 
renovation project of the Edmund P. Joyce Center, an 11,418-seat multi-purpose 
arena that is used by the school's basketball and volleyball teams. A 16,500-square-foot 
(1,530 m2) club / hospitality area which will include concession stands 
and restrooms, designed to accommodate 750 spectators, will be named for 
the Naimoli family.[11] In 2009, Naimoli donated a generous gift towards 
the construction of the Naimoli Family Athletic and Recreational Facility 
at New Jersey Institute of Technology. The facility will be approximately 
25,600 square feet (2,380 m2), housing courts for tennis, and will be made 
available for other athletic and recreational activities. The facility 
will be heated, air conditioned and utilize a flooring appropriate for 
the intended athletics and recreational activities. It is intended to meet 
the growing demand by our students, faculty and staff for such facilities, 
particularly, as our student population continues to increase.[12] Naimoli 
also claims to have made many more millions of dollars' worth of "anonymous 
