Vintage base ball is baseball presented as if being played by rules and 
customs from an earlier period in the sport's history. Games are typically 
played using rules and uniforms from the 1850s, 1860s and 1880s. Vintage 
base ball is not only a competitive game, but also a reenactment of baseball 
life similar to American Civil War reenactment. Players dress in uniforms 
appropriate to the time period, and many teams appear to be direct copies 
of teams that existed in the late 19th century. The styles and speech of 
the 19th century are also used while playing vintage base ball. The game's 
name is typically written "base ball" rather than "baseball", as that was 
the spelling used before the 1880s. Although rules differ according to 
which playing year is being used, there are some mostly common rules differences 
between the modern game and vintage base ball. In rules of years prior 
to the 1880s, the ball is pitched underhand in a manner suitable to the 
batter, or "striker." There are typically no fences as base ball is mostly 
played in fields and green spaces. However, obstacles (e.g. trees, building, 
etc.) often come into play. In many of the rules sets the ball can be played 
off of one bounce to get a striker out. Catching the ball can be very difficult 
because no gloves are used. This lack of hands, the underhand pitching 
and other rules make vintage baseball similar to the sport of British baseball. 
Because limited descriptive evidence exists to illustrate how live gameplay 
may have looked or sounded, researchers and vintage "ballists", or ballplayers, 
engage in an ongoing interpretive discourse about how the game may have 
actually appeared. There is continuous debate about such points of play 
as how frequently runners would steal bases, when sliding first became 
common and what it might have looked like, how strikers would hold or swing 
the bat, how the umpire's authority evolved, and how players would have 
conducted themselves on the field. One commonly held interpretation is 
that gameplay was marked by a spirit of gentlemanly sportsmanship. Modern 
vintage ballists will often observe this custom through friendly gestures 
such as cheering good plays made by opposing players, assisting umpires 
with making calls at bases, and conducting organized cheers for opposing 
teams (and often for the umpire and "cranks", or fans) at the conclusion 
of a match. The politeness and sportsmanship observed in these games are 
more in keeping with the early days of baseball, which was considered a 
"gentleman's game". As the game progressed into professionalism in the 
1870s and money (and thus winning) became a primary motivator, the 19th 
century game became marked by rough play and cheating, which was relatively 
easy to accomplish, due to the lone umpire who might fail to see such infractions. 
The Vintage Base Ball Association is an international association of vintage 
ball clubs which promotes the game through conferences, publications, message 
boards and listservs, educational resources, and links to leagues, clubs, 
