The Visalia Rawhide are a minor league baseball team in Visalia, California, 
U.S. They are a Class A - Advanced team of the Arizona Diamondbacks operating 
in the California League and have recently agreed to renew their affiliation 
through 2016. The Rawhide play their home games at Recreation Park which 
opened in 1946 and seats approximately 2,700 fans. In 2009, the City of 
Visalia completed a multimillion-dollar renovation and expansion of Recreation 
Ballpark supported by a 10-year lease with the ballclub, the longest lease 
in franchise history. After two years of fan surveys, polls, focus groups, 
and direction by players, the team announced a name change to the Visalia 
Rawhide, representing one of the richest agricultural regions in the world 
and the top dairy-producing area in the country. This change went into 
effect for the 2009 season; for the previous fourteen seasons, the team 
was known as the Oaks. The Visalia Ballclub also keeps alive the tradition 
of the Mighty Casey, the main folklore hero of "Casey at the Bat" and the 
"Mudville Nine", even wearing the old-fashioned Mudville Nine uniforms 
once per season as part of a turn back the clock promotion. Visalia is 
one of the 4 oldest cities of the Cal League, along with San Jose, California 
(the San Jose Giants/Bees); Modesto, California (the Modesto Nuts/A's) 
and the previous past in Lodi, California north of Stockton which goes 
back 70 years to 1941. The Visalia Rawhide mascot is a Holstein Bull named 
Tipper. Tipper was introduced on October 15, 2008. Tipper represents the 
tens of thousands of Holsteins in Tulare County, the top dairy-producing 
area in the country. Tipper's home is a ballpark barn - a 40' x 20' red 
barn which is part of the outfield fence - doubles carom off the side of 
the barn, and home runs land on the roof, leading to a new twist on the 
old baseball adage "couldn't hit the broadside of the barn" which now represents 
weak hitters instead of wild pitchers. The traditional red barn was built 
as a "community barn raising" to raise awareness for Habitat for Humanity 
and stand as an icon for the agricultural heritage of the valley. The Rawhide 
has been affiliated with numerous Major League franchises. The most recent 
are the Minnesota Twins, Colorado Rockies, Oakland A's, Tampa Bay Rays, 
and Arizona Diamondbacks. The Rawhide are heard terrestrially on KJUG AM 
1270 and over the internet through their website www.rawhidebaseball.com 
Many well-known Major League Baseball players have been with the Visalia 
organization during their careers, including Paul Goldschmidt, Eddie Guardado, 
Kent Hrbek, Randy Johnson, Evan Longoria, Kirby Puckett, Max Scherzer, 
Nick Swisher, Juan Uribe, Justin Upton, Barry Zito and Sean Doolittle. 
As a minor league affiliate of the Oakland A's at the time, the Visalia 
Oaks were mentioned twice during the 2011 movie Moneyball (which took place 
in 2002). In the 1988 film Bull Durham, Visalia was mentioned as a potential 
managing job for aging catcher Crash Davis, played by Kevin Costner. Pitchers 
Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches 7-day disabled list * On 
Arizona Diamondbacks 40-man roster # Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve list ‡ 
Restricted list § Suspended list † Temporary inactive list Roster updated 
May 7, 2016 Transactions → More MiLB rosters → Arizona Diamondbacks minor 
