Volata ("flow") is a code of football developed and promoted by Italian 
fascists for a brief period during the late 1920s and early 1930s, in an 
attempt to displace sports with non-Italian origins, such as association 
football (soccer) and rugby union. Association football was popular in 
Italy when the fascists came to power in 1921. Rugby union was a new and 
relatively minor sport, but also growing in popularity. Although the fascists 
idealized association football for its contribution to physical fitness, 
it was also seen at the time as an "English game" (because the rules had 
been codified by the English Football Association and the first organized 
matches had taken place in England). The fascists generally distanced themselves 
from cultural practices with foreign roots. Conversely, rugby was seen 
as having links to the extinct Ancient Roman game of harpastum. By 1927, 
fascist propaganda actively promoted rugby – which it referred to as palla 
ovale ("oval ball"). However, the Federazione Italiana Rugby proved resistant 
to manipulation and the fascists quickly ceased their support. The national 
secretary of the Fascist Party, Augusto Turati, devised volata. Officially, 
the rules were based on long-extinct codes of football indigenous to Italy, 
especially the Roman harpastum and the medieval calcio Fiorentino. Volata 
was contested by eight-member sides, with rules that were described by 
a 1929 propaganda newsreel from Istituto Luce as a "synthesis of the essential 
elements of the games of calcio and rugby" (sintesi di elementi essenziali 
del giuoco del calcio e del "rugby").[1] Use of the word "calcio" was ambiguous, 
as it was the usual name of association football, as well as calcio Fiorentino, 
which in 1930 was also revived at the fascists' behest. Promoted by Fascist 
sporting and cultural organizations, Volata enjoyed a brief phase of popularity. 
More than 100 Volata clubs and a league were reportedly formed.[citation 
needed] However, the enduring popularity of association football caused 
the fascists to change their attitude toward the sport. In 1933, volata 
organizations and competitions were officially abandoned. Afterwards the 
fascists encouraged association football; Italy hosted and won the 1934 
World Cup. The popularity of rugby and its place within Italian sporting 
culture appear to have been reduced by the changing policies of the fascists, 
as well as the invention of volata. Nevertheless, rugby survived the fascist 
period and began to grow when Italy was occupied by British Commonwealth 
