W. is a 2008 American biographical drama film based on the life and presidency 
of George W. Bush. It was produced and directed by Oliver Stone, written 
by Stanley Weiser, and stars Josh Brolin as Bush, with a supporting cast 
that includes Ellen Burstyn, Elizabeth Banks, James Cromwell, Thandie Newton, 
Jeffrey Wright, Scott Glenn, and Richard Dreyfuss. Filming began on May 
12, 2008, in Louisiana and the film was released on October 17.[2] George 
W. Bush dreams of being a baseball player and is in the empty stadium. 
In 1966, Bush endures an initiation by his fellow Yale University students 
as a Delta Kappa Epsilon pledge. During the hazing, Bush successfully recalls 
the names and nicknames of many of the fraternity members, and states that 
his family's political legacy is one in which he has no interest. After 
Bush is jailed in New Jersey for rowdiness following a football game, his 
father, George H. W. Bush states that he will help Bush for the last time. 
Following his graduation from Yale, Bush takes a job at an oil patch back 
in Texas, but he quits after a few weeks. In 1972, "Junior" reveals his 
real aspirations in a father-son talk: working in professional baseball. 
Bush is accepted into Harvard Business School with the help of his father. 
After heavy drinking, Bush crashes his car into his family estate and challenges 
his father to a fistfight. His brother, Jeb, stops the fight. In 1977, 
Bush announces he will run for Congress. At a barbecue, Bush meets his 
future wife, Laura Lane Welch. During a debate, Bush is criticized by his 
Democratic opponent, Kent Hance, who says that Bush is not a real Texan 
and has spent campaign contributions to throw an alcohol-fueled party for 
underage Texas Tech University students. Bush does poorly in the debate 
and loses the election, but with the highest number of votes for a Republican 
candidate in the state's history. In 1986, Bush becomes a born-again Christian, 
gives up alcohol, and mends his relationship with his father. The elder 
Bush invites him to assist with what becomes his 1988 presidential campaign, 
although Bush himself suspects that he only was asked because Jeb was busy. 
Bush's political advisor, Karl Rove, tells him that he has the potential 
to make a name for himself. Bush becomes a front office executive of the 
Texas Rangers baseball team, while his father oversees the victory of the 
Gulf War. Although Allied forces win the war within 100 hours, the elder 
Bush decides not to invade Iraq to depose Saddam Hussein. After his father 
loses the 1992 presidential election to Bill Clinton, Bush blames the loss 
on his decision not to depose Saddam. In 1994, Bush runs for Governor of 
Texas despite his father's opposition. In 1999, he makes a successful bid 
to become President. Following the September 11 attacks in 2001, Bush labels 
Iran, Iraq, and North Korea as the "axis of evil". In 2002, Bush searches 
for evidence that Saddam was creating nuclear weapons, and has the army 
prepared. All of Bush's White House staff supports him except Secretary 
of State Colin Powell, who states that planning to invade Iraq would destabilize 
the country. Powell is generally overruled by Vice President Dick Cheney 
and Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, who insist that the war would 
secure the United States' status as sole global superpower while spreading 
democracy throughout the Middle East. In March 2003, the U.S. invades Iraq 
and the war appears to be a success, and Bush gives his "Mission Accomplished" 
speech on an aircraft carrier. When it becomes clear that there are no 
weapons of mass destruction within Iraq, Bush learns that the responsibility 
for finding them had been relegated far down the chain of command. Bush 
discovers that Saddam gambled his regime and his life on the assumption 
that Bush was bluffing. Bush is asked in a White House press conference 
what mistakes he made as President, a question that leaves him flustered 
and speechless. That night, Bush has a nightmare in which his father accuses 
him of ruining his family's legacy, which the elder Bush claims was intended 
for Jeb. Bush dreams of himself playing center field at a baseball game. 
Bush attempts to catch a pop fly, but it disappears. I want a fair, true 
portrait of the man. How did Bush go from an alcoholic bum to the most 
powerful figure in the world? It's like Frank Capra territory on one hand, 
but I'll also cover the demons in his private life, his bouts with his 
dad and his conversion to Christianity, which explains a lot of where he 
is coming from. It includes his belief that God personally chose him to 
be President of the United States, and his coming into his own with the 
stunning, preemptive attack on Iraq. It will contain surprises for Bush 
supporters and his detractors. W was Oliver Stone's third film in a trilogy 
he made about the Presidency, set in the time from the 1960s to today: 
the set began with JFK and continued with Nixon. Originally, he was attached 
to direct Pinkville, a film about the Army's investigation of the My Lai 
Massacre, but development was canceled due to the 2007–2008 Writers Guild 
of America strike and actor Bruce Willis pulling out of the film three 
weeks before shooting was set to start.[4] As a result, United Artists 
shut the production down. Stone moved on to direct a film about the life 
and presidency of George W. Bush, shopping a script that had been written 
before the strike by Stanley Weiser, who had co-written Wall Street with 
Stone. Weiser and Stone read 17 books as part of their research for the 
script,[9] and worked on the project for a year before venturing to film 
Pinkville.[8] Stone has admitted that he and Weiser had to speculate on 
some dialogue: "You take all the facts and take the spirit of the scene 
and make it accurate to what you think happened".[10] W. was financed independently 
for Stone, with Hong Kong, German, and Australian funds: he tried to approach 
American studios for money, but got turned down.[11] Lions Gate Entertainment 
distributed the film.[4] Though Stone has criticized Bush for his administration's 
2003 invasion of Iraq, the director said that he was not looking to make 
an "anti-Bush polemic." Stone compared his goal of the film to that of 
The Queen, wanting to trace "seminal events in Bush's life." According 
to the director, "It's a behind-the-scenes approach, similar to Nixon, 
to give a sense of what it's like to be in his skin. But if Nixon was a 
symphony, this is more like a chamber piece, and not as dark in tone."[8] 
He described the structure of W. as a three-act film starting with Bush 
as a young man "with a missed life", followed by his transformation and 
"an assertion of will which was amazingly powerful" as he came out from 
his father's shadow, and finally his invasion of Iraq.[12] The film, originally 
titled Bush,[8] was re-titled W.[13] Filming began on May 12, 2008, in 
Shreveport, Louisiana,[14] and completed filming on July 11, 2008.[15] 
On May 13, 2008, the New York Post published excerpts from an early draft 
of the script. The column, written by Cindy Adams, stated “Pro-Bushies 
will hate it, antis will love it.”[16] The film was released on October 
17, 2008, timed just before the presidential election.[2] W. 's producers 
reportedly ran television spots for the film opposite Republican Party 
presidential nominee John McCain's ads in the fall of 2008.[4] W. received 
mixed reviews from critics. Rotten Tomatoes reports 59% of critics giving 
the film positive write-ups, based upon a sample of 212, with an average 
score of 6/10.[17] The website summarized the reviews of the film by calling 
it "A surprisingly sympathetic portrayal of the 43rd American president, 
W. is fascinating in spots, but merely rudimentary as a whole."[17] At 
Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating out of 100 to reviews from 
mainstream critics, the film has received an average score of 56, based 
on 36 reviews.[18] In his review Roger Ebert wrote that it was "fascinating" 
and praised all the actors, noting that Richard Dreyfuss was "not so much 
a double as an embodiment" of Dick Cheney.[19] In contrast, Ann Hornaday 
of The Washington Post called the film "a rushed, wildly uneven, tonally 
jumbled caricature."[20] Film critic James Berardinelli negatively compared 
the film with Saturday Night Live skits, saying of the actors that "None 
of them are as dead-on as Tina Fey as Sarah Palin." The Bush administration 
never officially commented on the film. Former Florida Governor Jeb Bush, 
who is portrayed in the film, called the sibling rivalry portrayed in the 
film "high-grade, unadulterated hooey" and said that Stone's exploration 
of the family dynamic could have benefited from actual conversations with 
the Bush family.[21] Slate Magazine's Timothy Noah, however, noted that 
"most [of] the film's more ludicrous details" are actually directly taken 
from non-fiction sources, and argued that the film was too kind to Bush 
in omitting certain historically recorded dramatic events, most notably 
Bush's alleged mocking of murderer Karla Faye Tucker, a woman put to death 
during his tenure of the Texan governorship.[22] However, the incident 
is disputed by Bush himself, and as such is also unconfirmed. In a March 
2010 "Screen Test" interview with The New York Times' Lynne Hirschberg, 
Josh Brolin claims Bush did in fact watch the film. Brolin said Oliver 
Stone met with Bill Clinton in China and Clinton told Stone he'd lent his 
copy of W. to Bush. Reportedly, Bush himself "liked it very much" and "thought 
there were sad moments."[23] The film appeared on some critics' top ten 
lists of the best films of 2008. Joe Neumaier of the New York Daily News 
named it the eighth best film of 2008,[24] and Roger Ebert of the Chicago 
Sun-Times named it on his top 20 list (he did not assign rankings).[24] 
The film opened No. 4 behind The Secret Life of Bees, Beverly Hills Chihuahua, 
and Max Payne, respectively with $10,505,668 from 2,030 theaters with a 
$5,175 average.[25] The film had a budget of $25.1 million and grossed 
$25,534,493 in North America, and $3,401,242 internationally.[citation 
