William O'Connell McGeehan (November 22, 1879 – November 29, 1933) was 
an American sportswriter and editor of the New York Herald Tribune. He 
was born to Hugh and Theresa O'Connell McGeehan on November 22, 1879 in 
San Francisco, California, and died in Brunswick, Georgia, on November 
29, 1933. McGeehan entered Stanford University, but left within the first 
year as he enlisted in the U.S. Army to fight in the Spanish–American War. 
After the war. he returned to San Francisco, going to work as a reporter 
for the San Francisco Bulletin. McGeehan continued to work for different 
papers in San Francisco, including the San Francisco Chronicle. It was 
during his reporter days in San Francisco that he received the nickname 
"Sheriff." It seems some 13 desperate convicts had escaped from Folsom 
Prison, outside Sacramento; one was killed in the escape but the other 
12 headed for the state of Nevada. Many posses were formed and McGeehan, 
wanting to cover the story as a reporter, was deputized and led one of 
the posses into the Sierra Nevada. This group included a famous Indian 
Scout, Farro. They walked right by where some of the convicts were hiding 
and missed them. They made use of bloodhounds, but the terrain got so rough 
that McGeehan had to help carry the dogs back downhill. The upshot was 
that 3 of the 12 were captured, but the rest got away. From that time on 
McGeehan was known to many as Sheriff. In 1910, McGeehan married Sophie 
Treadwell. Treadwell was a reporter and writer who became famous in her 
own right for her books and plays in later years. They met while working 
on one of the San Francisco papers and went East when McGeehan felt it 
was time to move on. He claimed the old Days weren't that good not much 
pay, a lot of work and certainly no recognition. Although many of his columns 
and much of his work was related to boxing, he covered nearly all sports 
and write at length about his extensive travels. He fished and hunted moose 
in Canada, and spent much time in Europe especially in the Balkans and 
traveling around the Mediterranean. He was most often accompanied by his 
wife, although he referred to her as the woman who is driving me. McGeehan 
had many excellent descriptive phrases related to various activities: Boxing 
was the manly art of modified murder or the Cauliflower industry. He called 
Primo Carnera the "tall tower of Gorgonzola" and referred to wrestlers 
as Pachyderms. An Italian wrestler was described as "breathing garlic and 
defiance." He also often wrote of a Salmon named Alphide, a leaping champion 
from the Meramichi River in New Brunswick, trained as a falls jumper, but 
died of a broken heart at the base of Niagara Falls. Also, Moe the Moose 
