William Patrick "W.P." Kinsella, OC, OBC (May 25, 1935 – September 16, 
2016) was a Canadian novelist and short story writer, known for his novel 
Shoeless Joe (1982), which was adapted into the movie Field of Dreams in 
1989. His work often concerned baseball, First Nations people, and other 
Canadian issues. William Patrick Kinsella was born in Edmonton, Alberta, 
the son of Irish American parents, Olive Mary (née Elliott/Elliot), a printer, 
and John Matthew Kinsella, a contractor.[1] He was raised until he was 
10 years old at a homestead near Darwell, Alberta, 60 km west of the city, 
home-schooled by his mother and taking correspondence courses. "I'm one 
of these people who woke up at age five knowing how to read and write," 
he says.[2] When he was ten, the family moved to Edmonton. He did not go 
to school until grade five, and did not attend university until he was 
in his mid-30s.[3] Kinsella was not exposed to literature in school, claiming 
in a 2010 interview, "One Shakespeare play and one J. M. Barrie play was 
the total literature of my high school years." Kinsella's literary education 
in his formative years came from reading and by attending all the plays 
at high school and any theatrical productions that made it to Edmonton. 
He also worked in the school library his senior year.[4] As an adult, he 
held a variety of jobs in Edmonton, including as a clerk for the government 
of Alberta and managing a credit bureau. In 1967, he moved to Victoria, 
British Columbia, running a pizza restaurant called Caesar's Italian Village 
and driving a taxi. Though he had been writing since he was a child (winning 
a YMCA contest at age 14), he began taking writing courses at the University 
of Victoria in 1970, receiving his Bachelor of Arts in Creative Writing 
there in 1974. He earned a Master of Fine Arts in English degree through 
the Iowa Writers' Workshop at the University of Iowa in 1978. Before becoming 
a professional author, he was a professor of English at the University 
of Calgary. According to the Canadian Encyclopedia, W.P. Kinsella's literary 
output primarily consisted of two cycles of work dealing with two fictive 
universes: those dealing with baseball and those depicting the indigenous 
people of Canada. Kinsella's first published book was called Dance Me Outside 
(1977), which was a collection of seventeen short stories narrated by a 
young Cree, Silas Ermineskin, who describes life on a First Nations reserve 
in Kinsella's native Alberta.[5] A later collection of similar stories, 
The Fencepost Chronicles, earned Kinsella the Stephen Leacock Memorial 
Medal for Humour. Kinsella was criticized for writing from the point of 
view of Native people, appropriating their voices. He rejected the criticism 
on the grounds that a writer has the license to create anything he chooses 
and called the term "cultural appropriation" the nonsense of Eastern Canadian 
academics.[6] These stories use the ineptness of the white bureaucrats 
on reservations as background, and Kinsella defended the stories, saying, 
"It's the oppressed and the oppressor that I write about. The way that 
oppressed people survive is by making fun of the people who oppress them. 
That is essentially what my Indian stories are all about." [5] In the field 
of baseball, Kinsella wrote nearly 40 short stories and three novels. Shoeless 
Joe (1982), his first novel, blends fantasy and magical realism to tell 
the story of a poor Iowa farmer who, yielding to voices in his head, builds 
a baseball field in his corn field that attracts the spirits of the 1919 
Chicago White Sox. The Iowa Baseball Confederacy (1986), another book blending 
fantasy and magical realism, recounts an epic baseball game a minor league 
team played against the 1908 World's Champion Chicago Cubs. Box Socials 
(1991), an evocation of life in rural Alberta during the Great Depression 
and World War II, features a growing boy as its narrator and a purported 
local batting hero's hopes in facing a visiting major league pitcher 60 
miles away in Edmonton. Shoeless Joe remains Kinsella's most famous work. 
The book was mildly controversial in that it used a living person, the 
reclusive author J.D. Salinger, as one of its main characters. Kinsella, 
who had never met him, created a wholly imagined character (aside from 
his being a recluse) based on the author of The Catcher in the Rye, a book 
that had great meaning to him when he was a young man. To get a feel for 
Salinger, he re-read his body of work. "I made sure to make him a nice 
character so that he couldn’t sue me."[citation needed] In an example of 
metafiction, he named his protagonist in Shoeless Joe "Ray Kinsella", a 
character from Salinger’s uncollected story “A Young Girl in 1941 with 
No Waist at All.” Salinger had also used the surname shared by writer and 
protagonist in The Catcher in the Rye (Holden Caulfield's friend Richard 
Kinsella).[citation needed] Known for his litigiousness, Salinger contacted 
Kinsella's publisher via his attorneys to express outrage over having been 
portrayed in Shoeless Joe. Kinsella denied that Salinger, as a writer, 
had any real influence on his own writing, despite rumors to the contrary. 
(Some rumors held that Kinsella had actually met Salinger in person.)[4] 
Shoeless Joe won Kinsella the prestigious Houghton Mifflin Literary Fellowship 
and the Books in Canada First Novel Award in 1982. The book garnered good 
reviews, sold very well, and was made into a popular movie. W.P. Kinsella's 
novel Shoeless Joe was made into the movie Field of Dreams, starring Kevin 
Costner. The movie grossed nearly $65 million in the United States, and 
helped establish Costner as a star.[7] Kinsella's eight books of short 
stories about life on reserves were the basis for the 1994 movie Dance 
Me Outside and CBC television series The Rez, both of which Kinsella considers 
to be of very poor quality[citation needed]. The collection Fencepost Chronicles 
won the Stephen Leacock Award for Humour in 1987. The short story The Last 
Pennant Before Armageddon was adapted for the stage by the Live Bait Theater 
in Chicago in 1990.[citation needed] A short story by Kinsella, Lieberman 
in Love, was the basis for a short film that won the Academy Award for 
Live Action Short Film in 1996. The Oscar win came as a surprise to the 
author, who, watching the award telecast from home, had no idea the film 
had been made and released. He had not been listed in the film's credits, 
and was not acknowledged by director Christine Lahti in her acceptance 
speech. A full-page advertisement was placed in Variety apologizing to 
Kinsella for the error.[citation needed] W.P. Kinsella was involved in 
a car accident in 1997 which almost resulted in the end of his fiction 
writing career. He was struck by a car while out walking and suffered a 
head injury when he hit the ground. He would not publish another novel 
for 14 years. In a 1999 interview with the University of Regina's student 
newspaper, Kinsella explained that he could no longer write as he lost 
his ability to concentrate. The injury also robbed him of his senses of 
taste and smell. Kinsella said he went from being a Type A personality 
to Type B. After the accident, he didn't feel like doing the things he 
had done in his normal routine and didn't care. He did write book reviews 
to keep his name before the public.[8] Kinsella's 14-year-long exit from 
the world of published fiction also may have had economic roots. He was 
cited as an archetypical victim of changes in the publishing industry during 
the late 1980s, which accelerated during the 1990s, that made it more difficult 
for well-regarded "mid-list" writers such as Kinsella to remain in print. 
Changes to the U.S. tax code effected by the Tax Reform Act of 1986 discouraged 
publishers from maintaining inventories of titles in their back lists, 
as they were taxed on warehoused books.[citation needed] This led to the 
thinning out of back lists and the more rapid remaindering of books. The 
publishing industry underwent a wave of consolidation in the 1990s, as 
publishers were acquired by big communications companies seeking marketing 
synergies. The new publishing houses poured more capital into higher-paid, 
best-selling writers and celebrities who could guarantee "hit" books as 
well as media tie-in novels. Mid-list writers with first-rate reputations 
but mid-range, non-spectacular sales suffered accordingly as they were 
ignored by the new publishing conglomerates.[citation needed] Commenting 
about the state of the book industry in a 2010 interview with Macleans 
Magazine, Kinsella said, "The publishing industry today is just—I couldn’t 
break into the market today if I was just starting out. The publishing 
industry is down to a few dozen mainly adventure and romance writers. There’s 
still some academic fiction out there, but it has an incredibly small audience. 
Nobody really cares about it." [4] On September 1, 2011, 'Winnipeg, Manitoba's 
Enfield and Wizenty, a small press specializing in limited edition hardcover 
books, released Kinsella's first published work in thirteen years, Butterfly 
Winter. The unpublished manuscript of the novel had won this publisher's 
Colophon Prize the preceding March. The release was backed up by a "modest" 
book tour, according to the publisher.[9] The story of Julio and Esteban 
Pimental, twins whose divine destiny for baseball begins with games of 
catch in the womb, marks a return to form, combining his long-held passions 
of baseball and magical realism.[10] The University of Toronto Press released 
a trade hardcover edition on October 1. A short story of Kinsella's by 
the same title was included in his 1988 collection, Red Wolf, Red Wolf 
published by Totem Press(Collins Publishers).[citation needed] A noted 
tournament Scrabble player, Kinsella became more involved with the game 
after being disillusioned by the 1994 Major League Baseball strike. He 
spent his final years in Yale, British Columbia, with his fourth wife, 
Barbara, occasionally writing articles for various newspapers. Kinsella, 
who had suffered from diabetes for decades, elected to die with a physician's 
