WABC (770 AM), known as "NewsTalkRadio 77 WABC" is a radio station in New 
York City. Owned by the broadcasting division of Cumulus Media, the station 
broadcasts on a clear channel and is the flagship station of the Westwood 
One Network (successor to Cumulus Media Networks; formerly Citadel Media 
and ABC Radio Networks). WABC shares studio facilities with sister stations 
WNSH (94.7 FM), WPLJ (95.5 FM), and WNBM (103.9 FM) above Pennsylvania 
Station in midtown Manhattan. WABC's transmitter is located in Lodi, New 
Jersey. Its 50,000 watt non-directional clear channel signal can be heard 
at night throughout much of the eastern U.S. and Canada. Beginning January 
2009, its programming has also been carried on WPLJ's HD3 digital sub-channel.[1] 
One of the country's oldest radio stations, WABC began broadcasting, originally 
as WJZ in Newark, New Jersey, in early October 1921. WABC has programmed 
a talk radio format since 1982. The station uses on-air slogans such as 
Breaking News and Stimulating Talk, New York's 50,000 Watt Beacon of Freedom 
and Where New York Comes to Talk. Many WABC hosts moved on to national 
syndication. The station currently serves as the flagship for syndicated 
talk-radio hosts Mark Levin, John Batchelor and Don Imus. It was where 
the nationally syndicated programs hosted by Rush Limbaugh and Sean Hannity 
got their start, although those programs are now heard on WABC's Talk Radio 
rival in New York, 710 WOR. From 1981 to 1982, WABC ran a full service 
news intensive adult contemporary format with some talk and sports programming 
weekday evenings. From 1960 to 1981, WABC broadcast a Top 40 music format 
and until 1978 was the dominant contemporary music station in the New York 
City area, serving as a template for many other Top 40 stations around 
the country. During this time, WABC was among the most listened to radio 
stations in North America. WABC's only current sports contract is with 
the United States Military Academy for Army football games. In addition 
to the aforementioned Yankees coverage, the station served two separate 
stints as the flagship for the New York Jets and was also the home of the 
New Jersey Devils beginning in 1988. WABC also previously carried Seton 
Hall University men's basketball. Early in its Top 40 incarnation, WABC 
served as the original radio flagship of the New York Mets. A notable aspect 
of WABC's Mets coverage was Howard Cosell and former Brooklyn Dodgers pitcher 
Ralph Branca handling the pre- and post-game shows. The station lost those 
rights to WHN following the 1963 season. The Jets first called WABC home 
in the 1980s, but left toward the end of the decade for WCBS. The team 
would return to the station in 2000 after spending the previous seven seasons 
on WFAN. After then-sister station WEPN became the Jets' flagship, WABC 
began simulcasting the games over their airwaves due to its stronger signal. 
The arrangement ended in 2008 as WEPN began simulcasting all its programming 
on two other stations. In December 2001, broadcast rights to the Yankees 
were lost after 21 years to WCBS. WABC also lost the radio rights to the 
Devils in 2005, as New Jersey's hockey team moved to WFAN to substitute 
for the station's loss of the New York Rangers to WEPN. WABC served as 
an overflow station for the Rangers from 2005 through 2009, and also served 
the same purpose for the New York Knicks when their games moved from WFAN 
to WEPN, but those rights moved to WNYM in 2009. The loss of evening sports 
programming has forced WABC to attempt to solidify its evening talk lineup. 
In November 1920, the Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Company had 
established its first broadcasting station, KDKA, located in its plant 
at East Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in order to promote the sale of radio 
receivers. This initial station proved successful, so the next year the 
company developed plans to set up additional stations in major population 
centers, including, in addition to the New York City area, WBZ, originally 
in Springfield, Massachusetts, and KYW, originally in Chicago, Illinois. 
On September 30, 1921, Westinghouse was issued a broadcasting authorization 
for a station with the randomly assigned call letters WJZ,[3] located at 
the company's meter factory at Orange and Plane streets in Newark, New 
Jersey, and transmitting on a wavelength of 360 meters (833 kHz).[4] WJZ's 
studio and transmitter were initially housed in a shack located on the 
factory roof, that was only accessible by ladder. The station later expanded 
to a larger studio on the factory's ground floor.[5] The station began 
test transmissions around October 1, 1921, followed, beginning October 
5, by broadcasts of the 1921 World Series baseball games. Announcer Thomas 
H. Cowan in Newark simply relayed the description phoned in from the Polo 
Grounds playing field by Newark Sunday Call sportswriter Sandy Hunt.[6] 
(At first station announcers were identified only by initials, in Cowan's 
case as "ACN", for "Announcer-Cowan-Newark"). The station soon expanded 
to feature a wide variety of live programming. A popular early feature 
were the "Man in the Moon" bedtime stories, written by Josephine Lawrence 
and read over the air by Bill McNeary. (Both were Newark Sunday Call employees.) 
Beginning on November 27, 1921, a weekly 90-minute show presented by Vincent 
Lopez band was aired.[7] When it began its broadcast service, WJZ was the 
only station in the New York City area transmitting on 360 meters. In mid-December 
1921, station WDY, operated by the Radio Corporation of America (RCA) from 
Roselle Park, New Jersey, began sharing the wavelength, with WJZ now broadcasting 
on Sundays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, and WDY operating on the 
other three nights. This soon ended when WDY ceased operations in mid-February 
1922 and was merged with WJZ, with RCA now assuming half of WJZ's expenses. 
However, within a few months a large number of additional broadcasting 
stations began operating on 360 meters, and WJZ was stubborn about having 
to share "its" wavelength. In May 1922 a proposed timesharing agreement 
among 15 local stations assigned more than half of the available airtime 
to WJZ, but the station did not feel this was sufficient, which in turn 
led the Radio Broadcasting Society of America to petition that WJZ's license 
be canceled for being uncooperative.[8] There were no formal standards 
in the United States defining broadcasting stations until December 1, 1921, 
when the Department of Commerce, which regulated radio at this time, issued 
a regulation specifying that stations making broadcasts intended for the 
general public now had to hold a Limited Commercial license that authorized 
operation on 360 or 485 meters.[10] WJZ was one of a small number of stations 
that already met this standard at the time of its adoption. It was also 
the second oldest of the two licenses previously issued for the state of 
New Jersey, preceded by RCA's WDY grant. However, WJZ was the first to 
go on the air, as WDY didn't begin operations until two and a half months 
after WJZ's debut. WJZ had difficulty convincing New York City performers 
– who were not paid – to make the trek to Newark, so on February 5, 1922 
a more convenient remote studio was opened at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, 
Fifth Avenue and Thirty-Fourth Street.[11] The American Telephone & Telegraph 
Company (AT&T) was unwilling to provide a telephone line to connect the 
Waldorf-Astoria studio to the Newark transmitter, so the link was instead 
made using specially prepared telegraph wires provided by Western Union. 
However, this expedient only provided marginal audio quality, and "the 
line was so noisy that when Newcomb Carleton, the president of Western 
Union, broadcast over it, his voice was completely drowned out".[12] On 
March 15, 1922, WJZ broadcast a studio performance of Mozart's Impresario, 
probably the first full-length opera broadcast in the New York City area. 
In October 1922, the station aired its second World Series, this time also 
feeding it to WGY in Schenectady, New York. Shortly after midnight on December 
9, 1922, WJZ became the first broadcasting station confirmed to have been 
heard in Europe, consisting of a short program featuring greetings from 
the British consul in New York to British listeners and Vaughn De Leath 
singing her "Oliver Twist" song. May 15, 1923 saw a number of simultaneous 
major changes. Most notably, on this day the station moved from Newark 
to New York City, and the ownership was changed from joint Westinghouse-RCA 
responsibility to full control by RCA. WJZ now occupied studios on the 
sixth floor of the building where the Aeolian Hall was located, and station 
publicity heralded the upgrade: "Located in the heart of the city's musical 
and theatrical district, where entertainment of the highest order is ever 
available, this station will offer to the American public the most elaborate 
radio programs yet attempted and with a degree of faithfulness in reproduction 
that marks the beginning of a new era in radio broadcasting."[13] This 
was also the day that the Department of Commerce implemented an expansion 
of the broadcast band, which now consisted of a range of transmitting frequencies 
from 550 to 1350 kHz, with WJZ assigned the sole use of 660 kHz. Finally, 
a sister station with the call letters of WJY, operating on 740 kHz, was 
established, which shared the "Broadcast Central" Aeolian Hall studios, 
with WJZ providing more serious programming, and WJY's offerings considered 
more informal. Program logs from May 15 to December 31, 1923, show WJZ 
aired 3426 programs, including 723 talks, 67 church services, 205 bedtime 
stories and 21 sports events. Many of the broadcasts were musical and ranged 
from Carnegie Hall and Aeolian Hall recitals to harmonica and banjo solos. 
As part of the move to Aeolian Hall, WJZ's transmitting antenna was constructed 
atop the building, but the location in the middle of New York City proved 
to be a poor choice. At the end of 1925, the station began operations from 
a new transmitter site located at Bound Brook, New Jersey. However, this 
overwhelmed several other stations on the air, forcing WJZ engineers to 
visit homes in central New Jersey to deal with the complaints.[citation 
needed] As a result, WJZ didn't operate regularly at 50,000 watts until 
1935. Westinghouse and RCA's original financing plan envisioned that profits 
from receiver sales would provide the funds for broadcast station operations, 
but this revenue soon became insufficient. In 1922, AT&T adopted a more 
practical approach, of selling airtime, which it called "toll broadcasting", 
in addition to connecting stations together using telephone lines to form 
a radio network that could broadcast programs simultaneously to multiple 
sites. This first radio network was called the "WEAF chain", named after 
the flagship AT&T station (now WNBC), located in New York City. RCA, along 
with its "radio group" allies of Westinghouse and General Electric, responded 
by creating a small network of their own, centered on WJZ. Due to AT&T's 
interpretation of a patent-rights cross-licensing agreement, the telephone 
company claimed the sole right to sell airtime, so WJZ was not able to 
charge for advertising, and again there were technical limitations, since 
the network had to use inferior telegraph lines to interconnect its stations.[14] 
In the summer of 1926, AT&T decided to withdraw from the broadcasting field, 
and sold its stations and network operations to RCA. Included with this 
sale was the right to sell advertising time, and access to telephone lines 
for radio network connections. The earlier network operations were reorganized 
as the National Broadcasting Company (NBC), with the primary network, now 
known as the NBC Red Network, originating from WEAF. A second network, 
known as the NBC Blue Network, with WJZ as the originating station, debuted 
on January 1, 1927. (The WJY sister station was quietly discontinued at 
this time.) In October 1927, WJZ moved into NBC studios still under construction 
at 711 Fifth Avenue. A month later, WEAF joined WJZ – and both were together 
under one roof. On November 11, 1928, as part of a general station reassignment 
produced by the Federal Radio Commission's General Order 40, WJZ moved 
to 760 kHz. On March 24, 1932, WJZ became the first radio station to broadcast 
a program from aboard a moving train; the station aired a variety show 
produced aboard a Baltimore and Ohio Railroad passenger train travelling 
through Maryland.[15] In November 1933, WJZ, WEAF plus the NBC and RCA 
corporate headquarters moved to 30 Rockefeller Plaza. In 1941, under the 
provisions of the North American Regional Broadcasting Agreement, stations 
assigned to 760 kHz were shifted to 770 kHz, which has been WJZ/WABC's 
dial position ever since. WJZ and the Blue Network presented many of America's 
most popular programs, such as Lowell Thomas and the News, Amos 'n' Andy, 
Little Orphan Annie, America's Town Meeting of the Air, and Death Valley 
Days. Each midday, The National Farm and Home Hour brought news and entertainment 
to rural listeners. Ted Malone read poetry and Milton Cross conveyed children 
"Coast To Coast on a Bus", as well as bringing opera lovers the Saturday 
matinée Metropolitan Opera radio broadcasts. Cross would continue to host 
the Met on NBC, ABC, CBS and NPR until his passing at the beginning of 
1975. Occasionally, a show would premiere on NBC Blue, which had a weaker 
lineup of stations nationwide, and be shifted to the Red Network if it 
grew in popularity. Fibber McGee and Molly is one example. In 1942, the 
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) ruled that no broadcaster could 
own more than one AM, one FM and one television station in a single market. 
On January 23, 1942, the FCC approved the transfer of WJZ's operating license 
from Radio Corporation of America to the Blue Network, Inc.[16] A year 
later, on October 12, 1943, WJZ and the NBC Blue Network were sold to Edward 
J. Noble, then the owner of WMCA. Technically, this spun off network was 
simply called "The Blue Network" for little over a year. On June 15, 1945, 
"The Blue Network" was officially rechristened the American Broadcasting 
Company, when negotiations were completed with George B. Storer, who had 
owned the defunct American Broadcasting System and still owned the name. 
In November 1948, WJZ and the ABC network finally got a home of their own 
when studios were moved to a renovated building at 7 West 66th Street. 
On March 1, 1953, WJZ changed its call letters to WABC, after the FCC approved 
ABC's merger with United Paramount Theatres, the movie theater chain owned 
by Paramount Pictures which, like the Blue Network, was divested under 
government order.[17][18][19] The WABC call letters were once used previously 
on CBS Radio's New York City outlet, before adopting their current WCBS 
identity in 1946. Westinghouse, however, did not let the WJZ call sign 
go forgotten. After acquiring Channel 13 WAAM in Baltimore, Maryland in 
1957, Westinghouse applied to change the calls to WJZ-TV in honor of its 
pioneer radio station.[citation needed] The FCC granted the unusual request 
(perhaps because Westinghouse was highly regarded as a licensee by both 
the industry and the FCC at that time), and the Baltimore TV station, now 
owned and operated by CBS, retains the call letters to this day, along 
with sister radio stations 1300 WJZ (AM) and 105.7 WJZ-FM. Although WABC 
continued to air ABC programming during this time, ABC Radio – like the 
other major radio networks of that era – began to drop significant amounts 
of long-form comedy and dramatic programming, many of which migrated over 
to television. In response, WABC began using deejays playing recorded music 
in greater frequency. Some programs featured Middle of the road (music), 
including Broadway and Hollywood showtunes and popular music, while other 
portions of the schedule included ABC Radio's remaining long-form newscasts 
and dramatic program lineup, in tandem with CBS Radio's WCBS and NBC Radio's 
WNBC. (This would continue until 1960, as the Musicradio 77 era formally 
began, but WABC was still required to carry several of ABC Radio's non-music 
and entertainment shows, including the long-running Don McNeill's Breakfast 
Club during the 10:00 am hour, and a long-form news block in the afternoon-drive 
period. While this was not an issue prior to 1960, such commitments created 
a programming clash with the Top 40 format up until the network was dissected 
into four sub-networks in 1968.) In 1958–1959, legendary rock'n'roll disk 
jockey Alan Freed hosted a daily evening show on WABC, which was similar 
in format and musical policy to the early rock shows he had gained fame 
with on WJW in Cleveland, and later WINS in New York. Freed's time at WABC 
ended when he was caught up in the investigation of the "payola" scandals 
of the era. At different times in the pre-top-40 era, famed comedian Ernie 
Kovacs and dean of early disc jockeys Martin Block were heard on the station.[20][21] 
When Harold L. Neal, Jr. was named General Manager of WABC, he was charged 
with making WABC successful in terms of both audience and profits. Neal 
had been at WXYZ in Detroit. By 1960, WABC was committed to a nearly full-time 
schedule of top-40 songs played by upbeat personalities. Still, WABC played 
popular non-rock and roll songs as well, provided they scored well on the 
Top 40 charts. WABC's early days as a Top 40 station were humble ones. 
Top 40 1010 WINS was the No. 1 hit music station and WMCA, which did a 
similar rock leaning top 40 format, was also a formidable competitor, while 
WABC barely ranked in the Top Ten. Fortunately for WABC, the other Top 
40 outlets could not be heard as well in more distant New York and New 
Jersey suburbs, since WINS, WMGM, and WMCA were all directional stations. 
WABC, with its 50,000-watt non-directional signal, had the advantage of 
being heard in places west, south, and northwest of New York City – a huge 
chunk of the growing suburban population – and this is where the station 
began to draw ratings. Early in 1962, WMGM, owned by Loew's, which then 
owned MGM, was sold to Storer Broadcasting. Upon its sale, WMGM reverted 
to its original WHN call letters and switched to a middle of the road music 
format playing mostly non-rock artists such as Frank Sinatra, Nat King 
Cole and Andy Williams. Sam Holman was the first WABC program director 
of this era. Under Holman, WABC achieved No. 1 ratings during much of 1962, 
after WMGM reverted to WHN. By the summer of 1963, WMCA led the pack among 
contemporary stations, with WABC at No. 2 and WINS slipping to third place. 
It has been said, but is difficult to verify, that WMCA dominated in the 
city proper, while WABC owned the suburbs. This would be consistent with 
WMCA's 5,000-watt directional signal. Hal Neal hired Rick Sklar as WABC's 
program director. He would go on to become a member of the Radio Hall of 
Fame and be credited as one of the pioneering architects of the Top 40 
format. Under Sklar, the station went to the shortest playlist of any contemporary 
music station in history. The number one song was heard about every hour 
during the day and every 75 minutes or so at night. The other top 5 songs 
were heard nearly as often. Other current songs averaged once to twice 
per airshift. The station played about 9 current hits per hour and several 
non-current songs. The non-currents were no more than 5 years old and the 
station played about 70 of them in total. In his book Rockin' America, 
Sklar said he was sensitive to payola concerns and advanced airplay. Through 
the years, WABC was known by various slogans, "Channel 77 WABC" and later 
"Musicradio 77 WABC". Due to the high number of commercials each hour, 
WABC played no more than two songs in a row and there was frequent DJ talk 
and personality between every song. The station averaged 6 commercial breaks 
per hour but they were no more than 3 ads in a row. Often the air personalities 
delivered live commercials in their own humorous style, so that listeners 
would consider the spot part of the entertainment. Early 1960s disc jockeys 
included Dan Ingram, Herb Oscar Anderson, Charlie Greer, Scott Muni, Chuck 
Dunaway, Jack Carney, and Bob "Bobaloo" Lewis. But some of the best known 
WABC DJs are the ones that followed them in the mid-1960s and 1970s: Harry 
Harrison, Ron Lundy, "Cousin Brucie" Bruce Morrow, Chuck Leonard (one of 
the earliest African-American DJs to be on the staff of a major mainstream 
radio station), Johnny Donovan, Bob Cruz (a Dan Ingram sound alike), Frank 
Kingston Smith, Roby Yonge, George Michael, Jim Nettleton, Jim Perry and 
Steve O'Brien. Meanwhile, Radio Hall of Fame member Dan Ingram, perhaps 
WABC's best known DJ, was held over from the early staff, being heard in 
the afternoon for much of WABC's Top 40 history. Noted sportscaster Howard 
Cosell did a brief weekday evening sportscast on WABC, as well as hosting 
a late Sunday night interview show called "Speaking of Everything." Especially 
in the afternoons and evenings, WABC was the station that teenagers could 
be heard listening to on transistor radios all over the New York metropolitan 
area. Due to its strong signal, the station could be heard easily over 
100 miles away, including the Catskill Mountains, Pocono Mountains, through 
much of Connecticut and Rhode Island. After sunset, when AM radio waves 
travel farther, WABC's signal could be picked up around much of the Eastern 
U.S. and Canada. Bruce Morrow often spoke about how he felt an almost psychic 
bond to his young listeners. A famous tape, or aircheck, of WABC from August 
1964 features some of the DJs speaking from a window of the Beatles' hotel 
room (The Delmonico Hotel) during the Fab Four's second visit to New York 
City, while Dan Ingram, back in the studio, played WABC jingles to thousands 
of teenagers in the streets below, who enthusiastically sang along with 
them. Ingram later noted that this was actually illegal under FCC rules, 
but said that they didn't know it at the time.[22] In the wake of the success 
of "W-A-Beatle-C" (as it was briefly called around the time of the Beatles' 
U.S. visit), competitor WINS finally dropped out of the Top 40 battle in 
1965, adopting an all-news format. As a tribute to WABC,[citation needed] 
the television network also called itself "A-Beatles-C" whenever it promoted 
airings of Beatles-related films. Just before the famous Northeast Blackout 
of 1965, Dan Ingram noted that the studio's electric power was fluctuating 
and began having fun with the slowed-down music. After playing "Everyone's 
Gone to the Moon" by Jonathan King, he quipped it was played "in the key 
of R." Ingram then proceeded to run some recorded commercials and a portion 
of Si Zentner's "Up a Lazy River", backtimed to the news, while commenting 
on how everything seemed to be running slower than normal. During the 6 pm 
newscast, WABC left the air as the outage settled in for real. [6] Ingram 
later drove out to the transmitter site in Lodi, New Jersey, with a box 
of records, and continued his show from the backup studio housed there. 
In the 1970s, WABC was either No. 1 or No. 2 consistently, often trading 
places with WOR. Once in a while, a station attracting an older audience 
(like WOR or WPAT) would move into the top spot. These stations were not 
truly WABC's direct competitors because they targeted a much older audience. 
Chief competitor WMCA began running evening talk by 1968 and stopped playing 
top 40 music altogether in the fall of 1970. Then in 1971, Country Music 
station WJRZ abruptly flipped to a Top 40 format and became known as WWDJ. 
That lasted until April 1974. WOR-FM evolved from progressive rock to Adult 
Top 40 playing the hits of 1955 to current product by 1968. They dropped 
most pre 64 oldies in 1972 and became known as WXLO 99X. That station evolved 
into more on an Adult Contemporary format in 1979 and a Rhythmic Top 40 
format in 1980. Other FM competitors like oldies station WCBS-FM, soul 
station WBLS, and album-oriented rock stations like WPLJ and WNEW-FM all 
did well in the ratings, but none rivalled WABC's success. AM competitor 
WNBC also never came close to WABC's audience during this period. WNBC 
then had a format similar to 99X playing Adult Top 40. In 1977, WNBC tried 
sounding younger and moved their format musically closer to WABC. Then 
by 1979 they tried sounding older and somewhere in-between. Until 1978, 
WABC remained dominant. WABC's ratings strength came from its cumulative 
audience, what the radio industry calls "cume". Most listeners didn't stay 
with WABC for long periods of time, as the station had some of the shortest 
"time spent listening" (or TSL) spans in the history of music radio—an 
average listener spent about 10 minutes listening to WABC. It was the price 
paid for a short playlist, and numerous commercials between songs (the 
large number of commercials being due to WABC's large audience), but what 
WABC lacked in TSL it more than made up for with its sheer number of listeners. 
By 1975, WABC tried becoming more music-intensive, reducing commercial 
breaks to three per hour. It began playing 3 to 5 songs in a row, still 
mixed with talk and personality, but done in a tighter manner. Fed up with 
the short playlist, Cousin Brucie left in August 1974 to defect to rival 
WNBC. Rick Sklar was promoted in 1976 to vice president of programming 
for ABC Radio, and his assistant program director Glenn Morgan became WABC's 
program director. The station's influence could be found in odd places: 
Philip Glass' 1976 opera, Einstein on the Beach, has as part of the background 
a recitation of WABC's DJ schedule in the 1960s. The end of the 1970s found 
FM radio beginning to overtake AM music stations in most markets. In June 
1975, an FM station on 92.3, owned by the San Juan (Puerto Rico) Racing 
Association flipped to Soft Rock and became known as Mellow 92 WKTU. That 
station had very low ratings and had no effect on WABC. But on July 24, 
1978, at 6 PM, WKTU abruptly dropped its Soft Rock format in favor of a 
disco-based top 40 format known as "Disco 92". By December of that year, 
WABC was unseated, as WKTU became the No. 1 station in New York City. The 
first "disco" ratings saw WKTU with 11 percent of the listening audience—a 
huge number anywhere, let alone in a market the size of New York City—and 
WABC dropping from 4.1 million listeners to 3 million, losing 25 percent 
of its audience practically overnight. After this initial ratings tumble, 
WABC panicked and began mixing in several extended disco mixes per hour 
and sometimes played two back-to-back. Some of the disco songs ran in excess 
of eight minutes. What regular listeners heard was a major change in sound. 
While the station continued playing non-disco and rock songs about a third 
of the time, familiar format had seemed to disappear and as a result, WABC 
began to lose its identity. In late spring 1979, Billboard magazine reported 
that Rick Sklar had demoted program director Glenn Morgan to "moving carts" 
instead of making programming decisions. WABC's numbers dropped for four 
consecutive ratings periods. On August 2, 1979, the Donna Summer disco 
hit "MacArthur Park" was playing during Dan Ingram's afternoon drive program. 
During the song, DJ George Michael (who also was a sports reporter) interrupted 
to break the news that New York Yankees catcher and team captain Thurman 
Munson had died in a plane crash. In late summer, WABC moved, temporarily, 
back to their tight playlists. In September 1979, Al Brady Law took over 
the station, and according to an account by DJ George Michael, Rick Sklar 
was removed from his oversight of WABC and was moved "upstairs." Law cut 
back the current songs moderately (though still playing the top song over 
a dozen times a day) and added more 1970s rock, some album cuts, and a 
few big 1960s hits. He also changed the presentation of the station. The 
goal was to increase the station's poor time-spent-listening, and for this, 
he desired a new direction. He tightened personality on the station, limiting 
length of talk to 10 seconds and that was to always be done over the instrumental 
intros of the songs played. Longtime DJs Harry Harrison, Chuck Leonard, 
and George Michael exited that November. Dan Ingram moved to mornings, 
Bob Cruz (a Dan Ingram sound-alike, that until 1979 was Dan's designated 
fill in guy. While filling in, he would say he was on the Dan Ingram show, 
but did not identify himself, nor would he claim to be Dan either) moved 
from overnights to afternoons, and Sturgis Griffin joined for overnights, 
while Howard Hoffman did evenings. Hoffman was one of the first of the 
1980s style of contemporary hit radio (CHR) DJs—heavy on brief phone bits 
from listeners and a sarcastic sense of humor, sounding "hip", as the future 
Z100 DJs would a few years later. The time-spent-listening did improve, 
and WABC was now holding onto decent overall ratings, but they were under 
extreme pressure to regain the lost ground. The station started to become 
slightly information-oriented during drive times, adding morning traffic 
reports by Shadow Traffic's Jack Packard (aka Bernie Wagenblast) on December 
3, 1979. The station also used veteran traffic reporter Joe Nolan in afternoons. 
WABC did add New York Yankees baseball games that all-news WINS was unable 
to air due to their coverage of the Iran Hostage Crisis and the 1980 Democratic 
and Republican conventions. It was the first sign of the end for the music 
format of WABC. Al Brady left WABC in July and soon became General Manager 
of crosstown WYNY, which by then had a similar format to their then-fraternal 
twin sister station WNBC, as well as WABC. That fall, Jay Clark took over 
as program director at WABC. Jeff Mazzei arrived as assistant program director 
from crosstown WNEW (which was moving from adult contemporary to big bands 
and standards). Under Clark, the station played current music leaning toward 
a more Adult Contemporary (AC) sound, trying to appeal to a slightly older 
audience, as most younger listeners had moved to the FM dial. Part of the 
reason was the Top 40 chart was leaning that way at that point as well. 
So WABC still played rock and soul crossovers in moderation, but began 
to move away from album cuts and more toward 1960s and 1970s oldies. They 
also dropped the "Musicradio WABC" slogan and became "77 WABC, New York's 
Radio Station", the apparent implication being that the station was more 
than just music. By early 1981, WABC's cumulative audience was down to 
2.5 million—rival WNBC, a perennial also-ran, was by this time beating 
them with 3 million. Fewer people were tuning into WABC, listeners who 
had switched to FM were not coming back, and, while still moderately successful, 
the ship was sinking. Like Al Brady Law, Jay Clark tried to improve the 
time-spent-listening. In March 1981, Bob Cruz departed, Dan Ingram went 
back to his familiar afternoon slot, and the team of Ross Brittain and 
Brian Wilson from Atlanta moved into morning drive. Ross and Wilson, as 
the show was known, was very information-oriented, playing exactly four 
songs in an hour except on Saturdays when they played the usual 12 or so 
songs an hour. A week later, the station also began airing a weeknight 
sports-talk show with Art Rust, Jr. from 7 to 9 pm. WABC's ratings by this 
point were mediocre and they were still going down. Also, that March, WABC 
became the full-time flagship radio outlet for Yankees baseball games, 
a distinction the station carried through the end of the 2001 season. This 
would be the longest continuous relationship the team would have with any 
flagship station (to date). Jay Clark reasoned that Yankee baseball would 
bring back some listeners to the station and that they would recycle back 
into the music format, but not even the "Bronx Bombers" could save music 
on WABC. In the fall of 1981, WABC dropped the remaining heavy-rock cuts 
and non-crossover urban hits. They began playing more oldies, as well as 
songs from the adult contemporary chart, and added an "advice" talk show 
with Dr. Judy Kuriansky from 9 pm to midnight on weeknights. Howard Hoffman 
and Sturgis Griffin exited at this point. By then, WABC was almost unrecognizable 
as a Top 40 station, the ratings were languishing, and rumors were rampant 
that the station would be changing its format. In February 1982, WABC officially 
confirmed it would be going to an all-talk format that May. The airstaff 
began saying goodbye with a comment here and there from February into May. 
Finally, on April 30, it was announced that the switch to all-talk would 
occur on May 10 at noon. From May 7 to 9, the departing station air-staffers 
said their goodbyes one last time. Staffers that departed included Ron 
Lundy, Dan Ingram, Marc Sommers, and Peter Bush. Assistant Program Director 
Jeff Mazzei left for a similar position at WCBS-FM where he would stay 
for well over 25 years. Marc Sommers also went to WCBS-FM and eventually 
Ron Lundy and Dan Ingram would. Johnny Donovan and Mike McKay remained 
at WABC as staff announcers and producers. Mike McKay did not long survive 
the transition to talk and Johnny Donovan has since retired from WABC. 
Monday, May 10, 1982, the day WABC stopped playing music, is sometimes 
called[by whom?] "The Day the Music Died". WABC ended its 22-year run as 
a music station with a 9 am–noon farewell show hosted by Dan Ingram and 
Ron Lundy. The last song played on WABC before the format change was "Imagine" 
by John Lennon, followed by the familiar WABC "Chime Time" jingle, then 
a few seconds of silence followed by a minute jingle for talk radio before 
the debut of the new talk format. Initially after the format change, the 
station ran satellite talk shows from corporate ABC's "Talk Radio" network. 
Initially, WABC's lineup consisted of Ross and Wilson until 10 am, Owen 
Span from Satellite until noon, Art Athens and News until 1 pm, Money Management 
talk until 2 pm, Michael Jackson (a talk show host and not the late pop 
star) from satellite until 4 pm, another advice show with Dr. Toni Grant 
from satellite until 6 pm, and ending with a half-hour of news at 6. Sports 
Talk began at 6:30 pm and remained on until 9 pm. Doctor Judy remained 
in her time slot. Overnights were hosted by Alan Colmes, who played some 
music initially, but he stopped playing it by mid-1983. At that time, he 
was less politically based and more entertainment-based. Weekends had Child 
Psychology advice shows (Dr. Lawrance Balter), Home and Garden shows, talk 
about religion (Religion on the Line), and of course, the Yankees. Ross 
and Wilson stayed on and continued to play 4 songs per hour (mostly 1960s 
and 1970s hits) throughout 1982. In 1983, they stopped playing music as 
well. Ross and Wilson split up in 1983 when Ross went over to WHTZ. While 
the station's final ratings as a music station were mediocre, their talk 
ratings initially were even lower. Still, the station stuck with the new 
format. After Brian Wilson left in 1984, Alan Colmes moved to mornings. 
Jay Clark left that year. He was replaced by John Mainelli and at that 
point they dropped satellite programming. They added more issues-oriented 
talk shows, with an increasing number of conservative talk show hosts, 
although several liberals, including Colmes and Lynn Samuels, also hosted 
shows. The ratings grew and by the late 1980s, they were a very successful 
talk station. From 1984 to 1996 WABC broadcast the popular Bob Grant, a 
controversial, early "right-wing" talk radio host. After years of what 
many considered inflammatory remarks, he was fired in 1996 for a controversial 
comment regarding the death of United States Secretary of Commerce Ron 
Brown. After a number of years at competitor station WOR, Grant returned 
as a host as of July 2007, was removed again in December 2008, and returned 
again as a weekend host in September 2009. Alan Colmes would leave in 1985 
and by 1987 he emerged at WNBC on overnights, where he played moderate 
amounts of music there. He would move to afternoons on WNBC and eventually 
drop music there as well. He was on the air at WNBC's sign off in 1988. 
Colmes eventually returned to WABC. Within its first years, the revamped 
WABC brought in Rush Limbaugh, who would go on to be the anchor program 
of the local station for two decades, and soon after the giant of talk 
syndication, the model for countless other conservative radio shows to 
follow. In the early 1990s Phil Boyce took over as program director. On 
February 6, 2006, the Walt Disney Company announced that it would sell 
WABC and other radio properties not affiliated with either Radio Disney 
or ESPN Radio, along with ABC Radio's News & Talk and FM networks, to Citadel 
Broadcasting Corporation for $2.7 billion. The transaction became final 
on June 12, 2007. Citadel merged with Cumulus Media on September 16, 2011.[23] 
In December 2007, Don Imus moved his program Imus in the Morning to WABC 
after 19 years at WFAN. Imus was fired from WFAN in April for controversial 
comments about Rutgers University's women's basketball team. As of January 
2012, the WABC broadcast day begins at 5:00 am (Eastern time) with the 
WABC News Hour. The Imus in the Morning program follows at 6:00. Connell 
McShane serves as sidekick and newscaster for the program, which is also 
simulcast on the Fox Business Network cable television network. He replaced 
Charles McCord, following his retirement on May 5, 2011. On January 1, 
2013, the traffic reports on WABC switched from Clear Channel's Total Traffic 
to Radiate Media's Right Now Traffic. Taking over traffic during the syndicated 
Imus In the Morning and the afternoon drive Sean Hannity Show is Jeff McKay, 
one of New York City's most recognizable traffic voices. Limbaugh and Hannity 
departed WABC at the end of 2013.[24] To fill Limbaugh's spot, WABC revived 
Curtis and Kuby; Curtis Sliwa had been hosting the morning show at WNYM 
since his departure from WABC while Ron Kuby had for the most part been 
a commentator on various news shows since his show on Air America Radio 
was cancelled.[25] Geraldo Rivera became host of WABC's 10 AM to noon slot 
beginning in January 3, 2012, replacing Joe Crummey. Curtis and Kuby follows 
from noon to 3 PM followed by Michael Savage at 3 PM. NY1 anchor Pat Kiernan 
hosts a 5 PM hour program. Mark Levin takes over in the evenings from 6–9 
PM. Late-night hours are covered by Red Eye Radio, a nationally syndicated 
program hosted by Eric Harley and Gary McNamara. On weekends, the station 
plays a mix of political and lifestyle programs, including syndicated programs 
by Monica Crowley and Larry Kudlow. Sunday afternoons featured the latest 
incarnation of Bob Grant's talk show until his death in January 2014, a 
program hosted by Jason Mattera, and an evening show hosted by Aaron Klein, 
while on Saturday and Sunday nights, the station carries a newsmagazine 
by John Batchelor. In January 2013 it was announced that Klein's Sunday 
night program became #1 on the AM dial in New York City in his time slot, 
according to ratings information released to the media. [7] [8] [9] Most 
recently, WABC added the GluckRadio podcast to its website, hosted by famed 
life coach Dr. Errol Gluck. The show features the most popular guests in 
the field of sexuality, culture and psychology. Previously, WABC carried 
Paul Harvey's newscasts during Imus in the Morning (Paul Harvey News and 
Comment) and in-between the midday host and Limbaugh (The Rest of the Story) 
up through Harvey's death in 2009. Flagship-wise, Limbaugh's show was produced 
at WABC from 1988 until the early 2000s, when he started doing the program 
from Premiere Radio Networks and a studio in his home in South Florida. 
(Even then, until WABC dropped the program, substitute hosts for Limbaugh 
still used the WABC studios, and Limbaugh on occasion had hosted from WABC.) 
Imus in the Morning originates from WABC, while Levin originates from Washington, 
D.C. sister station WMAL. The latter two shows are now syndicated by Westwood 
One, the successor to the original "ABC Radio Network" (known as Citadel 
Media from 2009 until 2011, and as Cumulus Media Networks from 2011 until 
2014). In 2004, the station earned the distinction of being a news/talk 
radio station even longer than it had been a Top 40 station, by marking 
22 years in its present format. Some of the station's former locally based 
hosts include John R. Gambling, Jay Diamond, Ed Koch, Lynn Samuels, Joy 
Behar, Mario Cuomo, Steve Malzberg, Richard Bey, Lionel, Harley Carnes, 
Dick Oliver, Penny Crone, Sam Donaldson, Jerry Agar, Michael Kay, James 
Golden (in partnership with Joel Santisteban), Brian Whitman, and Mancow 
Muller. Several nationally syndicated talkers have included Howard Cosell, 
Ed Hardy, Tom Snyder, Art Bell, Mike Gallagher (first heard locally co-hosting 
with Penny Crone, later in a syndicated show), Laura Schlessinger, Matt 
Drudge and Laura Ingraham. Long time WABC (AM) newsman George Weber, who 
reported the events on 9/11 for the station, was murdered in 2009. Although 
the station had good ratings, it underperformed in terms of total revenue, 
an example being WABC billing $21.3 million in 2008,[26] not even close 
to industry giant KFI in Los Angeles at $54.4 million. Phil Boyce departed 
as program director in October 2008, eventually replaced in February 2009 
by former XM Satellite Radio programmer Laurie Cantillo. Laurie Cantillo 
resigned on October 31, 2011. Chuck Armstrong was named interim program 
director in November, 2011. New Jersey Devils on WABC 1 = Clear-channel 
stations with extended nighttime coverage. 2= Stations share time on the 
frequency. 3= Station is licensed to a community in their respective sub 
market (e.g. New Jersey), but transmits from atop the Empire State Building 
or Freedom Tower. Coordinates: 40°44′57″N 73°59′32″W﻿ / ﻿40.74917°N 73.99222°W﻿ 
