WABC-TV, channel 7, is the flagship station of the ABC television network, 
located in New York City. WABC-TV is owned by the Disney-ABC Television 
Group division of the Walt Disney Company. The station's studios and offices 
are located near Lincoln Square on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, adjacent 
to ABC's corporate headquarters; its transmitter is atop the Empire State 
Building. WABC-TV is best known in broadcasting circles for its version 
of the Eyewitness News format and for its morning show, syndicated nationally 
by corporate cousin Disney-ABC Domestic Television. In the few areas of 
the eastern United States where an ABC station isn't receivable over-the-air, 
WABC is available on satellite via DirecTV (which also provides coverage 
of the station to Latin American and Caribbean countries and through major 
U.S. air carriers on LiveTV inflight entertainment system) and Dish Network 
(which carries the station as part of All American Direct's distant network 
package). The station signed on August 10, 1948, as WJZ-TV,[2] the first 
of three television stations signed on by ABC during that same year, with 
WENR-TV (now WLS-TV) in Chicago and WXYZ-TV in Detroit being the other 
two. Channel 7's call letters came from its then-sister radio station, 
WJZ (770 AM, now WABC). In its early years, WJZ-TV was programmed much 
like an independent station, as the ABC television network was still, for 
the most part, in its very early stages of development; the ABC-owned stations 
did air some common programming during this period, especially after the 
1949 fall season when the network's prime time schedule began to expand. 
The station's original transmitter site was atop The Pierre Hotel at 2 
East 61st Street, before moving to the Empire State Building a few years 
later. The station's original studios were located at 77 West 66th Street, 
with studios at 7 West 66th Street. An underground tunnel linked ABC studios 
at 7 West 66th Street to the lobby of the Hotel des Artistes, a block north 
on West 67th Street. Another studio inside the Hotel des Artistes was used 
for Eyewitness News Conference. The station's call letters were changed 
to WABC-TV on March 1, 1953[3][4] after ABC merged its operations with 
United Paramount Theaters, a firm which was broken off from former parent 
company Paramount Pictures by decree of the U.S. government.[5] The WJZ-TV 
callsign was later reassigned to Westinghouse Broadcasting (the original 
owners of WJZ radio in New York) in 1957 for their newly acquired television 
station in Baltimore – a station that was, by coincidence, an ABC affiliate 
until 1995. As part of ABC's expansion program, initiated in 1977, ABC 
built 7 Lincoln Square on the southeast corner of West 67th Street and 
Columbus Avenue, on a site of an abandoned moving and storage warehouse. 
At about the same time, construction was started at 30 West 67th Street 
on the site of a former parking lot. Both buildings were completed in June 
1979 and WABC-TV moved its offices from 77 West 66th Street to 7 Lincoln 
Square. On September 11, 2001, the transmitter facilities of WABC-TV, as 
well as eight other local television stations and several radio stations, 
were destroyed when two hijacked airplanes crashed into and destroyed the 
north and south towers of the World Trade Center. Transmitter maintenance 
engineer Donald DiFranco died in the attack. In the immediate aftermath, 
the station fed its signal to then-PBS member station (now educational 
independent station) WNYE-TV and then-AIN (later UATV) affiliate WHSE-TV 
(now UniMás O&O WFUT-DT),[6] before establishing temporary facilities at 
the Armstrong Tower in Alpine, New Jersey. The station eventually established 
transmission facilities at the Empire State Building. On May 27, 2007, 
WABC-TV's studios suffered major damage as the result of a fire that knocked 
the station off the air shortly before the start of the 11:00 PM Newscast. 
According to preliminary reports, the fire may have been ignited by a spotlight 
coming into contact with a curtain inside the news studio; the station's 
website later reported the cause as an "electrical malfunction". The station's 
building was evacuated and the fire was brought under control, though the 
studio was said to be "badly damaged",[7] having suffered smoke and water 
damage.[8] WABC-TV resumed broadcasting at around 1:00 AM on May 28, 2007 
(initially carrying the network's 10:00 PM West Coast feed of Brothers 
& Sisters, followed by the full broadcast of World News Now). Due to the 
fire, the station broadcast Eyewitness News from a temporary set in the 
newsroom, while Live with Regis and Kelly, whose set was also affected, 
moved to the set of Who Wants to Be a Millionaire. Starting with the 5:00 
PM Newscast on June 20, 2007, the station resumed the Eyewitness News and 
Live... broadcasts from its main studios at Columbus Avenue and 66th Street. 
In May 2013, WABC-TV and Philadelphia sister station WPVI-TV became the 
first two ABC-owned stations to offer live, web-based streaming of programming 
to authenticated subscribers of participating cable and satellite television 
providers as provided through the relaunched Watch ABC mobile apps.[9][10] 
On March 7, 2010 at 12:02 AM, WABC-TV's signal was removed from Cablevision's 
New York area systems (including iO Digital Cable) after failing to reach 
terms on a new retransmission consent agreement; the station was replaced 
by either a blank screen or a looping video containing a message from Cablevision 
about the removal. To avoid interruption of programming, the station urged 
Cablevision subscribers in the station's viewing area (totaling up to three 
million subscribers) to switch to other services, such as Verizon FiOS 
and DirecTV or simply view the station over the air through an over-the-air 
digital antenna and if necessary, a digital converter box, for older television 
sets.[11][12] WABC's sister station, WPVI-TV in Philadelphia was also pulled 
from Cablevision's New Jersey systems in Mercer, Ocean and Monmouth Counties.[13] 
Later that same day at approximately 8:50 PM, 20 Minutes into ABC's broadcast 
of the 82nd Annual Academy Awards, Cablevision and ABC reached a deal, 
restoring WABC and WPVI's signals for Cablevision subscribers after a nearly 
21-hour blackout.[14] In July 2010, ABC's parent company Disney announced 
that it was involved in a carriage dispute with Time Warner Cable, its 
first with that provider in 10 Years. This dispute involved 4 ABC owned-and-operated 
stations (WABC-TV and sister stations KABC-TV in Los Angeles, WTVD in Durham, 
North Carolina and WTVG in Toledo, Ohio, which at that time, WTVG was once 
an ABC O&O), Disney Channel and the ESPN networks. If a deal wasn't in 
place, the affected stations and cable channels would've been removed from 
Time Warner and Bright House Networks systems across the country. On September 
2, 2010, Disney and Time Warner Cable reached a long-term agreement to 
keep the channels on Time Warner Cable systems.[15] The station's digital 
channel is multiplexed: WABC-TV discontinued regular programming on its 
analog signal, over VHF channel 7, at 12:30 PM on June 12, 2009, as part 
of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television.[17] 
The station's digital signal relocated from its pre-transition UHF channel 
45 to VHF channel 7.[18][19] WABC's digital signal was initially difficult 
to receive over-the-air in New York City. The station was requested by 
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to broadcast at a lower power; 
WABC was among many stations which have found it necessary to increase 
power to restore coverage to the same level as its former analog signal. 
On June 29, 2009, WABC filed an application with the FCC to increase power 
from 11.69 kW to 27 kW.[20] On January 31, 2010, the FCC granted a special 
temporary authority (STA) for the station to increase power to 26.9 kW.[21] 
WABC has long presented events such as The National Puerto Rican Day Parade 
and the Columbus Day Parade. In addition, The station is also producing 
local programs such as Viewpoint, a weekly program that highlights the 
cultural and community efforts in New York, Long Island and New Jersey 
(each of these regions rotate weekly), Here and Now, a program covering 
the latest issues, trends and news stories impacting the local black community, 
Up Close with Diana Williams, a public affairs program on the latest issues 
with the newsmakers, and Tiempo, a weekly program that focus on the issues 
affecting local Hispanic citizens. WABC serves as the flagship station 
for Live! with Kelly (see below), Who Wants to Be a Millionaire (which 
is distributed by corporate sister Disney-ABC Domestic Television) and 
Rachael Ray. WABC-TV serves as the local over-the-air broadcaster of Monday 
Night Football games involving the New York Giants and the New York Jets, 
airing simulcasts of the team's ESPN-televised games (WABC-TV's corporate 
parent, the The Walt Disney Company, holds 80% majority ownership stake 
in ESPN, and the ABC Owned Television Stations have right of first refusal 
for simulcasts of ESPN's NFL telecasts within a team's home market). Because 
of this, atypical for a network-owned station outside of breaking news 
and severe weather coverage necessitating such situations, the station 
has had to reschedule ABC network programs pre-empted by the telecasts. 
The preseason and MNF telecasts mark the only NFL games to have aired on 
WABC-TV since ABC lost the rights to NFL games in 2006 on wards. During 
the regular season, Giants and Jets are rotated between WCBS-TV (through 
the NFL on CBS and Thursday Night Football), WNYW (through the NFL on Fox), 
WPIX (through select telecasts via the NFL Network's Thursday Night Football 
and/or via ESPN's MNF if WABC-TV decides not to air the event on WABC-TV), 
WABC-TV (with MNF), WNBC (through NBC Sunday Night Football and TNF), and 
at some cases, WWOR-TV (through MNF). Since 2013, WABC-TV serves the exclusive 
local English-language carrier of the annual New York City Marathon, in 
which WABC-TV will televised the marathon live and will televised the highlights 
through ESPN on ABC. The Station pre-empts a weekend edition of Good Morning 
America and delays This Week to schedule time for the live broadcast of 
the Marathon. The Marathon is also simulcasted on ESPN2 nationally (although 
viewers in the WABC-TV viewing area cannot see it via ESPN2 because the 
ESPN2 simulcast is blacked out locally) The telecasts of the marathon on 
station which former broadcaster WNBC backed out after the 2011 event and 
the cancelation of 2012 event due to the effects of Hurricane Sandy in 
the area. WABC-TV presently broadcasts 42 hours 55 minutes of locally produced 
newscasts each week (with 6 hours 35 minutes on weekdays and five hours 
on weekends). The station cooperates with Philadelphia sister station WPVI-TV 
– which popularized the Action News format – in the production and broadcast 
of statewide New Jersey political debates. When the two stations broadcast 
a statewide office debate, such as for governor or U.S. Senate, they'll 
pool resources and have anchors or reporters from both stations participate 
in the debate. Additionally, the two stations cooperate in coverage of 
news from New Jersey where their markets overlap, sharing reporters, live 
trucks and helicopters. WABC-TV launched Report to New York, its first 
regular news program, on October 26, 1959, featuring Scott Vincent with 
news, Howard Cosell with sports, and Lynn Dollar with weather. Report to 
New York aired Monday through Friday at 11 pm. In July 1960, WABC-TV tasked 
Vincent to anchor a live one-hour documentary, “Youth: A Summer Crisis?”, 
combining reporting and interviews. The documentary was highly commended; 
quoting Variety: “On the whole, this searching analysis was a creditable 
public service documentary of which WABC-TV may well be proud. Host-narrator 
Scott Vincent adeptly handled his chores while Walter Wager’s crisp script 
and (Lou) Volpicelli’s direction were additional aspects.” New York City 
Mayor Robert F. Wagner applauded the series during hearings before the 
US Congress on juvenile delinquency: "I would especially like to commend 
WABC-TV for...its fine hour long documentary "Youth-A Summer Crisis?" which 
set forth these problems in a dramatic and compelling fashion." [22] By 
January 1961, according to WABC-TV ad sales, “Scott Vincent and Report 
to New York earned the highest rating ever for a Channel 7 news program,” 
with ratings up 50% since its debut.” WABC-TV’s success with late evening 
news reporting, election coverage, and documentary and special reports, 
prompted them to expand “Report to New York” to Monday–Friday, 6:15–6:30 
pm following ABC Network News 6:00–6:15 pm, featuring “News with Scott 
Vincent,” “Sports Results with Howard Cosell,” and Regina Dombeck with 
weather.[23] “Report to New York” averaged a rating of 4.5 per telecast, 
while its lead-in, ABC Network News, averaged about a 3.0 rating. WABC-TV 
also created its first regular weekend news programs with Saturday Evening 
Final and Sunday Evening Final, both anchored by Vincent at 11 pm to provide 
a “complete, comprehensive weekend summary of late breaking headlines, 
sports results and weather reports.” On October 22, 1962, WABC-TV expanded 
its news operation further with an hour-long 6:00 PM newscast called The 
Big News with Bill Beutel and Jim Barnes as anchors, Cosell doing sports 
and Rosemary Haley as "weather girl". However, this effort failed to draw 
viewers from ratings leader WCBS-TV and second-place WNBC-TV. In early 
1968, Beutel left the station to become the London bureau chief for ABC 
News and was replaced by Roger Grimsby, who was hired away from San Francisco's 
KGO-TV after seven years. In a complete revamp, Grimsby was joined by Tex 
Antoine doing weather, celebrity gossip columnist Rona Barrett, New York 
Daily News columnist Jimmy Breslin with political commentary and reviews 
by Martin Bookspan and Allan Jeffries, while Cosell continued doing sports. 
Known as Roger Grimsby and the Noisemakers, this format didn't help the 
ratings, which plunged to an all-time low.[citation needed] Later that 
year, newly hired news director Al Primo brought to WABC-TV the Eyewitness 
News format, in which reporters present their stories directly to the viewers. 
Having experienced great success introducing the format during his time 
at KYW-TV in Philadelphia, Primo this time added a twist – a degree of 
conversational chatter among the anchors, known as "happy talk". The "Tar 
Sequence" cue from the musical score of the 1967 film Cool Hand Luke, composed 
by Lalo Schifrin, was introduced as the theme music. The score included 
a telegraphic-style melody appropriate for a newscast. The Eyewitness News 
format and theme music were quickly adopted by ABC's other four owned-and-operated 
stations at the time:WLS-TV in Chicago, WXYZ-TV in Detroit, KABC-TV in 
Los Angeles and KGO-TV in San Francisco (though KGO-TV and WXYZ-TV didn't 
use the Eyewitness News title for their programs). The format quickly rejuvenated 
a station that had long been an also-ran to WCBS-TV and WNBC-TV. Within 
a year, Channel 7 had shot to first place in the ratings for the first 
time in its history, displacing longtime leader WCBS-TV. It spent most 
of the decade going back and forth with WCBS-TV for first place. For a 
time in the 1980s, it fell into last place, but still fought with WNBC-TV 
for second place. Retaining only Grimsby, Cosell and Antoine from the earlier 
Noisemakers format, Primo also hired Tom Dunn away from WCBS-TV to serve 
as Grimsby's co-anchor. After Dunn departed for WOR-TV in 1970, Bill Beutel 
returned to the station as his replacement and for the next 16 years, Grimsby 
and Beutel were the faces of Eyewitness News. The duo were split up for 
the first 10 months of 1975 as ABC had reassigned Beutel to its new morning 
show AM America. The station brought in WXYZ-TV's Bill Bonds and veteran 
Boston anchor Tom Ellis to help replace Beutel; both Bonds and Ellis co-anchored 
at 11:00 PM for a time. When AM America was cancelled and replaced with 
Good Morning America, Beutel was re-teamed with Grimsby at 6:00 PM and 
Bonds returned to Detroit. Ellis remained until 1977 and was replaced by 
Larry Kane, who lasted only one year as the sole 11:00 PM anchor before 
returning to his home market of Philadelphia. Kane's successor, Ernie Anastos, 
began his New York career at the station; he co-anchored at 11:00 PM for 
his entire 12-year tenure there. On December 7, 1981, the station became 
the second in the city to expand its late afternoon/evening newscasts by 
adding of a 5:00 PM edition, first presented by Rose Ann Scamardella and 
Storm Field, later succeeded by Kaity Tong and Tom Snyder, the latter only 
lasting several months before being replaced by 11:00 PM co-anchor Ernie 
Anastos. In the wake of declining ratings, Grimsby was fired on April 16, 
1986, a move for which Applegate drew considerable ire, and Grimsby was 
quickly hired by rival WNBC-TV. Beutel stepped down from the anchor desk 
in 2001, which concluded the longest tenure for a main anchor in New York 
City television history, at that time. His record has since been surpassed 
by WNBC's Chuck Scarborough and WXTV's Rafael Pineda. Scarborough's uninterrupted 
run behind the desk is second in New York television to Pineda, who started 
with WXTV in 1972. In 1985, the station lured WLS-TV's news director, Bill 
Applegate, from Chicago to New York City. Applegate claimed credit for 
taking WLS-TV from last to first in only two years and ABC hoped he could 
work the same magic at the flagship station. Their hopes were rewarded 
in 1987 when Channel 7 surged back into first place. It has been the ratings 
leader in New York City since then, and has grown to become the most-watched 
broadcast television station in the United States.[24] WABC-TV's news department 
is respected for its straightforward presentation (especially during breaking 
news). For the last decade, it has waged a spirited battle for first place, 
but for most of the time has held onto the lead, helped in part by lead-ins 
from highly rated talk and entertainment shows. For over 24 years (December 
1986 to May 2011), the lead-in for the 5:00 PM Eyewitness News broadcast 
had been The Oprah Winfrey Show at 4:00 pm and its strong ratings brought 
viewers along to the 5:00 PM Newscast. The newscasts were replayed on one 
of channel 7's digital subchannels, another which also carried a local 
weather and news channel. WABC-TV's website had a link for live streaming 
video of "Eyewitness News Now", which offered live local and national weather 
updated from AccuWeather. Local news headlines and updates were also provided. 
The format of "Eyewitness News Now" is similar to the defunct NBC Weather 
Plus. In February 2011, ABC pulled ENN as well as similar news channels 
on its Los Angeles and Chicago sister stations, replacing them in all three 
cities with a standard definition, letterboxed simulcast of the Live Well 
Network. On December 2, 2006, WABC-TV became the second station in the 
New York City market to begin broadcasting its local newscasts in high 
definition. On September 7, 2010, WABC-TV expanded its weekday morning 
newscast, moving its start time to 4:30 AM. 3 Days earlier on September 
4, 2010, WABC added an hour-long extension of its Saturday morning newscast 
from 9:00 to 10:00 AM.[25] On May 26, 2011, WABC-TV added another hour 
of local news at 4:00 PM to replace Oprah, which aired its last original 
episode the previous day. On September 24, 2011, the station began broadcasting 
its newscasts and public affairs programs from a new street-level window 
studio at a former Disney Store location in the ABC building on 66th Street 
and Columbus Avenue. The space previously used for news broadcasts was 
used to expand the Live with Kelly studio.[26][27] In January 2012, the 
station also expanded its weekend 11:00 pm newscasts to an hour. On September 
8, 2014, the station expanded its Noon newscast to one full hour from the 
previous half hour.[28] WABC-TV also produces the nationally-syndicated 
talk show Live! with Kelly and Michael.[citation needed] Until the station's 
newscasts were moved to a separate studio in 2011, the program originated 
in the same ground-floor studio at 7 Lincoln Square as Eyewitness News, 
thus creating a situation which forced local news updates broadcast during 
Good Morning America and Live to be produced from the WABC-TV newsroom 
and the morning show's presence also limited the size of the Eyewitness 
News set. The program's roots originated with A.M. New York, which debuted 
in 1970 as a local version of NBC's Today show;[54] its first host was 
John Bartholomew Tucker, who remained with the program until 1972. After 
Tucker's departure, a succession of hosts came and went, the most successful 
of whom was Stanley Siegel, who hosted from 1975 to 1978 (for a year beginning 
in 1977, the series was called The Stanley Siegel Show).[55] After 1980, 
the show was retitled Good Morning New York, whose co-hosts in the last 
years of its run in that form included Spencer Christian, Andrea Kirby, 
Judy Licht, Dick Wolfsie and longtime Eyewitness News reporter and anchor 
Doug Johnson. After years of a losing ratings battle against Donahue on 
WNBC-TV, WABC-TV cancelled Good Morning New York in early 1983.[56] The 
current show began as the station's second attempt at a local morning show 
a month later, aptly titled The Morning Show (using the "Circle 7" logo 
in the actual text for one of the "o"s) and was originally hosted by Regis 
Philbin and Cyndy Garvey. After Garvey's departure a year later, she was 
replaced by Ann Abernathy, who in turn, left in 1985 to return to Los Angeles. 
That year, Kathie Lee Johnson (who would marry Frank Gifford a year later) 
became Philbin's new co-host. In 1988, Buena Vista Television (now Disney-ABC 
Domestic Television) began syndicating the show nationally as Live with 
Regis and Kathie Lee. Gifford left the show in 2000 and was eventually 
replaced by Kelly Ripa. Philbin left the show in November 2011 and the 
show aired for nearly a year as Live! with Kelly until former New York 
Giants defensive end Michael Strahan became Ripa's permanent co-host in 
September 2012. Until May 2016, Strahan left the show to become a full-time 
anchor at Good Morning America, thus leaving Ripa as the solo host again. 
