Waite Charles Hoyt (September 9, 1899 – August 25, 1984) was an American 
right-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball, one of the dominant pitchers 
of the 1920s, and the most successful pitcher for the New York Yankees 
during that decade. He was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1969. 
Hoyt was born in Brooklyn, New York to Addison and Louise Benedum Hoyt 
and attended Erasmus Hall High School.[1] Despite being a Dodgers fan, 
he was signed to a professional contract by New York Giants manager John 
McGraw when he was but 15. Because of his extreme youth, he was immediately 
nicknamed "The Schoolboy Wonder". After a brief stint with the Giants, 
McGraw sent Hoyt to the minors for refinement and experience. Hoyt soon 
returned to the majors, this time with the Boston Red Sox. His performance 
there attracted the attention of the Yankees, who acquired him in 1920. 
In his first season as a Yankee, he won 19 games and pitched three complete 
games in the World Series without allowing an earned run — over his career, 
he would win six American League pennants with the Yankees and one with 
the Philadelphia Athletics. In his finest years with the Yankees, 1927 
and 1928, Hoyt would post records of 22 wins and 7 losses with a 2.64 ERA 
and 23 wins and 7 losses with a 3.36 ERA. During his 21-year career, he 
won 10 or more games 12 times, 11 of them consecutively. Hoyt pitched for 
eight years after leaving the Yankees in 1930, but did not consistently 
display similar levels of pitching dominance. Hoyt finished his career 
with a win-loss record of 237–182 and an ERA of 3.59. By the time he retired 
in 1938, he had pitched the most victories in World Series history (his 
World Series record with the Yankees and A's was 6-4). In addition to the 
"Schoolboy" moniker appearing on his Hall of Fame plaque, Hoyt was also 
known as "The Merry Mortician", for when he was not playing baseball, he 
spent days working as a funeral director and nights appearing on vaudeville. 
As a vaudevillian, he appeared with many of the most well-known performers 
of the day, including Jack Benny, Jimmy Durante, George Burns, and others. 
He kept in shape during the off-season by playing semi-pro basketball. 
He added to his repertoire by becoming an accomplished painter and writer. 
On August 16, 1948, Hoyt paid tribute to Babe Ruth, speaking on the air 
without notes for two hours upon learning of his death after a game. He 
was well known as the pre-eminent authority on Babe Ruth, who for nearly 
10 years was his teammate and in Ruth's small inner-circle of friends. 
Robert Creamer, author of the definitive Ruth biography Babe, indicated 
in that book's introduction that the novella-length memoir written by Hoyt 
shortly after Ruth's death was "by far the most revealing and rewarding 
work on Ruth." A longtime member of Alcoholics Anonymous, during the 1978 
Old-Timers' Day game, Hoyt said wistfully that he would have won 300 games 
if he had stopped drinking during his playing days. After joining A.A., 
he remained sober for more than 40 years. After retiring as a player, Hoyt 
went into broadcasting. He was heard on WMCA in New York City but left 
that station to begin "a nightly quarter-hour program" of sports news and 
commentary on WNEW in New York, beginning October 17, 1938.[2] During a 
stint as the host of Grandstand and Bandstand on WMCA, he tried to audition 
for the Yankees, but sponsor Wheaties vetoed him out of hand. The common 
view at the time was that former players did not have enough of a vocabulary 
to be successful broadcasters. However, Hoyt was well known for dressing 
down umpire George Moriarty when he missed a call by saying, "You're out 
of your element. You should be a traffic cop so you could stand in the 
middle of the street with a badge on your chest and insult people with 
impunity!" Dodgers' voice Red Barber, however, thought more of Hoyt's abilities 
and hired him as color commentator and host of the pre- and post-game shows 
in 1940. After two years, he became the play-by-play voice of the Cincinnati 
Reds, a post he held for 24 years. He became as much a celebrity with the 
Reds as he was while a player. He was well known for calling games exclusively 
in past tense, which was and still is unusual for sportscasting. Where 
most baseball announcers would say, "Here's the pitch!" Hoyt would say, 
"There was the pitch!" He told author Curt Smith that he felt using past 
tense was accurate because "as I speak to you, what happened a moment ago 
is gone." Hoyt shared radio play-by-play duties for the 1953 All-Star Game 
on the Mutual Network and the second 1960 All-Star Game on NBC.[3] He called 
the 1961 World Series for NBC Radio, during a time when it was common for 
the primary broadcasters for participating teams to be used in network 
broadcasts of the Fall Classic. 1961 was the only World Series during his 
tenure, leading Hoyt to call himself "a bad news broadcaster." He retired 
from full-time broadcasting work in 1965, though he later made appearances 
on both radio and television, including the color commentary for the Reds 
telecasts in 1972. Hoyt was known for entertaining radio audiences with 
anecdotes during rain delays. A selection of these stories is collected 
on two record albums The Best of Waite Hoyt in the Rain and Waite Hoyt 
Talks Babe Ruth. Hoyt was one of the first professional athletes to develop 
a successful career in broadcasting and his name frequently appears on 
"all-time best" broadcaster lists. On June 10, 2007, the Reds honored Hoyt, 
Marty Brennaman, and Joe Nuxhall with replica microphones that are hung 
below the radio broadcast booth at Great American Ball Park in Cincinnati. 
An eternal optimist, Hoyt married his third wife, Betty Derie in 1982. 
Derie, a longtime fan, was an associate of Warren Giles, first President 
of the Reds and subsequently of the National League. Betty still lives 
in Cincinnati and was interviewed extensively in the video biography Waite's 
World. The bio was released on VHS in 1997 and includes interviews with 
his son Chris, the late Hall of Fame broadcaster Joe Nuxhall, reporter 
and television personality Nick Clooney, and retired Reds pitcher Jim O'Toole. 
The aging Hoyt died of heart failure while preparing for what he realized 
would be his final visit to the Hall of Fame, in Cooperstown, New York. 
