Major League Baseball transactions are changes made to the roster of a 
major league team during or after the season. They may include waiving, 
releasing, and trading players, as well as assigning players to minor league 
teams. Each Major League Baseball team maintains both a 25-man roster and 
a 40-man roster of players. Players on the 25-man roster are eligible to 
play in official major league games throughout the season. The 40-man roster 
includes the players on the 25-man roster plus as many as 15 players who 
are either on the team's seven- or 15-day disabled list, who are on paternity 
leave for up to three days, or who are in the franchise's farm teams in 
Minor League Baseball. From September 1 through the end of the regular 
season, any player on the 40-man roster (also referred to as the "expanded 
roster") is eligible to play in an official regular season game. Many young 
players make their Major League debuts in this way, as "September call-ups." 
To be eligible for a team's postseason roster, a player must be on any 
of the following: (a) the 40-man roster, (b) the 60-day disabled list, 
or (c) the bereavement list as of August 31 at midnight ET.[1] The only 
exception is that a player who is on the disabled list at the end of the 
regular season may be replaced on the postseason roster by any other player 
who was in the organization on August 31, with the approval of the Commissioner.[2] 
All players on the team's roster during the season will be eligible to 
receive a World Series ring after the team wins the World Series. Teams 
may trade only players currently under contract, except those players who 
have been drafted in the last year. From the end of the previous World 
Series through July, trades between two or more major league teams may 
freely occur at any time. In August, trades may only be made after all 
players in the trade clear waivers or are not on 40-man rosters. Players 
acquired after August 31 are ineligible for the postseason roster unless 
they replace an injured player. Unlike in the NFL, NHL, MLS, and the NBA, 
teams may not trade draft choices (with the exception of competitive balance 
draft selections, which can be traded), but may purchase the rights to 
Rule 5 Draft Picks.[3] Beginning with the 2012 season, MLB allows one specific 
class of draft picks to be traded. As part of a newly signed collective 
bargaining agreement between MLB and its players' union, each team is allocated 
a "bonus pool"—a set amount of money it can use to sign its draft picks 
for that year. Teams that go over their threshold can be penalized by losing 
one or more future draft picks. Those forfeited draft picks will eventually 
end up in the possession of small-revenue teams, which can then trade them 
if they wish. The first picks awarded under this scheme were for the 2013 
draft.[4] The August 31 rule was waived in 1945 for servicemen returning 
from World War 2. Over the years, there have been several notable cases 
where a player acquired after the August 31 deadline made a significant 
contribution to a playoff-contending team but was ineligible for the postseason; 
for example, Pedro Ramos with the 1964 New York Yankees and Sparky Lyle 
with the 1980 Philadelphia Phillies. If a player has been on an active 
major league roster for ten full seasons and on one team for the last five, 
he may not be traded to another team without his consent (known as the 
10 & 5 rule). Additionally, some players negotiate to have no-trade clauses 
in their contracts that have the same effect. In some trades, one of the 
components is a "player to be named later" which usually turns out to be 
a minor league player. The unnamed player is included as part of a trade 
when the teams cannot immediately agree on a specific player or when the 
player is not yet eligible to be traded. In these cases, the player in 
question must be named within six months. Cash or some other consideration 
may be exchanged in lieu of the player to be named later. For example, 
during the 1994 Major League Baseball strike, the Minnesota Twins traded 
Dave Winfield to the Cleveland Indians at the trade deadline. Among the 
conditions of the trade were that if the Indians played no more games in 
1994, "Indians general manager John Hart must write a check for $100 made 
out to the Minnesota Twins and take Twins general manager Andy MacPhail 
out to dinner."[5] Any player under contract may be placed on waivers ("waived") 
at any time. After MLB's August 1 at 4 pm trade deadline and through to 
the end of the season, a team must place a player on waivers if that player 
is to be traded. If a player is waived, any team may claim him. If more 
than one team claims the player from waivers, the team with the weakest 
record in the player's league gets preference. If no team in the player's 
league claims him, the claiming team with the weakest record in the other 
league gets preference. In the first month of the season, preference is 
determined using the previous year's standings. If a team claims a player 
off waivers and has a viable claim as described above, his current team 
(the "waiving team") may choose one of the following options: If a player 
is claimed and the waiving team exercises its rescission option, the waiving 
team may not use the option again for that player in that season—a subsequent 
waiver would be irrevocable with a claiming team getting the player essentially 
for nothing.[6] If no team claims a player off waivers after three business 
days, the player has cleared waivers and may be assigned to a minor league 
team, traded (to any team), or released outright. The waiver "wire" is 
a secret within the personnel of the Major League Baseball clubs; no official 
announcement of a waiver is made until a transaction actually occurs, although 
information sometimes leaks out.[6][7] Players are often waived during 
the post-July "waiver-required" trading period for teams to gauge trade 
interest in a particular player.[6] Usually, when the player is claimed, 
the waiving team will rescind the waiver to avoid losing the player unless 
a trade can be worked out with the claiming team. The National League (NL) 
was the first of the two major leagues to adopt the trade deadline rule 
in 1917. Originally it was enforced after June 15, but was later changed 
as the result of a new collective bargaining agreement.[8] For many years, 
players could not be traded from one league to another without being waived 
by all of the teams in the trading team's league. Then an inter-league 
trading period was established, centered on the winter baseball meetings 
in December. Later, there were two "inter-league" trading periods each 
year, one from after the World Series until mid-December and the second 
from a week before spring training began until March 15. So intent were 
leagues on keeping their stars from being moved from one league to the 
other, that then–National League President Warren Giles threatened to keep 
NL clubs from trading major stars to the American League after the deal 
that sent Frank Robinson from Cincinnati to Baltimore.[9] Options are directed 
by MLB Rule 11 (C).[10] A common misconception, based on the phrase, "out 
of options," is that a player may only be moved between the major and minor 
leagues a restricted number of times. On the contrary, a player has a finite 
number of option years in which he may be moved between the major and minor 
leagues an unlimited number of times. If a player is on the 40-man roster 
but not on the active major league roster, he is said to be on optional 
assignment—his organization may freely move him between the major league 
club and the minor league club. The rules for this are as follows. (In 
all cases, an assignment of a player on a major-league disabled list to 
the minors while on a rehabilitation assignment does not count as time 
spent in the minors.) Once all of the options have been used up on a player, 
a player is considered "out of options" and a player must be placed on 
and clear waivers prior to being sent down to the minor leagues (there 
is also the "veterans' consent" rule). A player who is designated for assignment 
(DFA) is immediately removed from the 40-man roster. This gives the team 
time to decide what to do with the player while freeing up a roster spot 
for another transaction, if needed. Once a player is designated for assignment, 
the team has ten days to do one of the following things: the player can 
be traded, the player can be released, or the player can be put on waivers 
and, provided he clears, outrighted to the minors. A player who is outrighted 
to the minors is removed from the 40-man roster but is still paid according 
to the terms of his guaranteed contract. A player can only be outrighted 
once in his career without his consent. If a player has 5 years of major-league 
service, he may not be assigned to a minor-league team without his consent. 
This exclusion applies regardless of whether he has not yet been outrighted 
once, has remaining options, or has cleared waivers. If the player withholds 
consent, the team must either release him or keep him on the major league 
roster. In either case, the player must continue to be paid under the terms 
of his contract. If he is released and signs with a new team, his previous 
team must pay the difference in salary between the two contracts if the 
previous contract called for a greater salary. If a major league player 
cannot play because of a medical condition, he may be placed on the 15-day 
disabled list (DL). This removes the player from the 25-man roster, freeing 
up a space, but he is ineligible to play for at least 15 consecutive days. 
Players on the 15-day disabled list are still a part of the 40-man roster. 
An injured player may also be placed on the 60-day disabled list to remove 
the player from the 40-man roster as well, with the condition of being 
ineligible to play for 60 consecutive days. Players placed on the 15-day 
disabled list may be moved to the 60-day list at any time, but not vice 
versa. Players may be placed on either disabled list retroactively for 
a maximum of 10 inactive days and may remain on either list for as long 
as required to recover. During this 10-day period, a player's status is 
said to be day-to-day, indicating that the team is in the process of deciding 
whether the player must be placed on either DL or is healthy enough to 
return to active service. Injured players may not be traded without permission 
of the Commissioner nor may they be optioned to the minors, though they 
may be assigned to a minor league club for rehabilitation for a limited 
amount of time (30 days for pitchers, 20 for non-pitchers). In 2011, a 
7-day disabled list was added specifically for players who have suffered 
a concussion. This was instituted to allow players who may recover from 
their concussions quickly to be removed from the active roster and replaced 
for a shorter period of time than 15 days. A player who is still suffering 
from concussion symptoms at the 7-day mark is automatically transferred 
to the 15-day DL. Both the brain injury and the player's recovery need 
to be verified by team and league doctors; the list is not intended for 
non-concussion injuries.[11] The bereavement list may be used when a player 
finds it necessary to leave the team to attend to a serious illness or 
death in his (or his spouse's) immediate family. A player placed on the 
bereavement list must miss a minimum of three games and a maximum of seven 
games. The team can use another player from its 40-man roster to replace 
a player on the bereavement list. The paternity leave list may be used 
when a player finds it necessary to leave the team to attend the birth 
of his child. A player placed on the paternity leave list must miss the 
next team game, but no more than three games. The team can use another 
player from its 40-man roster to replace a player on the paternity leave 
list. This list was adopted beginning with the 2011 season.[12] If a player 
not on a 40-man roster has spent four years with a minor-league contract, 
originally signed when 19 or older or five years when signed before the 
age of 19, he is eligible to be chosen by any team in the rule 5 draft 
during the offseason. No team is required to choose a player in the draft, 
but many do. If chosen, the player must be kept on the selecting team's 
25-man major league roster for the entire season after the draft—he may 
not be optioned or designated to the minors. The selecting team may, at 
any time, waive the rule 5 draftee, such as when they no longer wish to 
keep him on their major league roster. If a rule 5 draftee clears waivers, 
he must be offered back to the original team, effectively canceling the 
rule 5 draft choice. Once a rule 5 draftee spends an entire season on his 
new team's 25-man roster, his status reverts to normal and he may be optioned 
or designated for assignment. To prevent the abuse of the rule 5 draft, 
the rule also states that the draftee must be active for at least 90 days. 
This keeps teams from drafting players, then "hiding" them on the disabled 
list for the majority of the season. For example, if a rule 5 draftee was 
only active for 67 days in his first season with his new club, he must 
be active for an additional 23 days in his second season to satisfy the 
rule 5 requirements. Any player chosen in the rule 5 draft may be traded 
to any team while under the rule 5 restrictions, but the restrictions transfer 
to the new team. If the new team does not want to keep the player on their 
25-man roster for the season, he must be offered back to the team he was 
on when he was chosen in the draft. The intent of the rule 5 draft is to 
prevent teams from holding major league-potential players in the minor 
leagues when other teams would be willing to have them play in the majors. 
However, this draft has also become an opportunity for a team to take a 
top prospect from another team who might not be ready for the major leagues. 
For example, Cy Young award winner Johan Santana was chosen by the Florida 
Marlins four years before winning the award, when the Houston Astros declined 
to put him on their 40-man roster. The Marlins chose Santana in the 1999 
rule 5 draft, and traded him to the Minnesota Twins who kept him on their 
roster for the 2000 season, in which he toiled to a 6.49 earned run average 
at only 21 years of age. Two years later, he legitimized himself as a Major 
League pitcher, with an ERA under 3.00, and two years after that, he was 
recognized as one of the best pitchers in the league. Had he not been chosen 
in the rule 5 draft, he likely would not have made his major-league debut 
until the 2001 or the 2002 season with the Astros. Roberto Clemente is 
the only Rule 5 draft pick to be inducted into Cooperstown. Having been 
selected by the Pittsburgh Pirates from the then Brooklyn Dodgers in 1955. 
A free agent is a player whose contract with a team has expired and who 
is thus eligible to sign with another team. If a player is drafted and 
is offered a contract by his drafting team (or any team to which he is 
traded) each year, he may not become a free agent until: Two examples of 
players falling under (2) above are Hideki Okajima and Hiroki Kuroda. A 
player with fewer than six years of service time is eligible for salary 
arbitration if he: Players with more than six years of service time and 
who are eligible for free agency can also be offered arbitration when their 
contracts are up, if they have been tendered a contract offer by their 
current team by the tender deadline, and have not agreed on a contract.[13][14] 
The 4.2 example of arbitration eligibility above is called the "Super Two" 
exception, in which a player will have an extra year of arbitration eligibility.[15][16] 
Notable recent "Super Two" players include Nolan Arenado, Chris Archer, 
Anthony Rendon, and Avisail Garcia.[17] Following the salary arbitration 
process, the player and the team both submit a salary offer for a new contract. 
The arbitrator chooses one number or the other, based on which offer is 
closest to the salaries of players with similar ability and service time. 
For purposes of salary arbitration and free agency, a player acquires a 
year of service time if the player remains on the major league roster for 
at least 172 days of the 182-day season. Players eligible for neither free 
agency nor salary arbitration are very seldom offered contracts for much 
more than the league minimum salary, as the player has no recourse to try 
to obtain a better salary elsewhere. For this reason, in the first three 
major league years of their careers (except for the "Super Two" exception 
above), it is standard practice for players to accept comparatively low 
salaries even when their performance is stellar. Occasionally, a team may 
wish to sign a player in his second or third year to a long-term contract, 
and the resulting negotiations can involve salaries significantly higher 
than minimum. A recent example is the contract Ryan Braun signed barely 
a year into his major league career, which would have taken him through 
2015.[18] However, in April 2011, he and the Milwaukee Brewers extended 
that contract through 2020.[19] A team does not have to offer a contract 
to a player not eligible for free agency if his contract has expired, regardless 
of service time. If the player is not tendered a contract offer by the 
tender deadline (usually in the second week of December), the player becomes 
