In baseball, a walk-off home run is a home run that ends the game. It must 
be a home run that gives the home team the lead (and consequently, the 
win) in the bottom of the final inning of the game. Thus the losing team 
(the visiting team) must then "walk off" the field immediately afterward, 
rather than finishing the inning. The winning runs must still be counted 
at home plate. Because the home team always bats last, any kind of "walk 
off" scenario, which ends the game, can only be accomplished by the home 
team. Although the concept of a game-ending home run is as old as baseball, 
the adjective "walk-off" attained widespread use only in the late 1990s 
and early 2000s. The first known usage of the word in print appeared in 
the San Francisco Chronicle on April 21, 1988, Section D, Page 1. Chronicle 
writer Lowell Cohn wrote an article headlined "What the Eck?" about Oakland 
reliever Dennis Eckersley's unusual way of speaking: "For a translation, 
I go in search of Eckersley. I also want to know why he calls short home 
runs 'street pieces,' and home runs that come in the last at-bat of a game 
'walkoff pieces' ..." Although the term originally was coined with a negative 
connotation, in reference to the pitcher (who must "walk off" the field 
with his head hung in shame),[1] it has come to acquire a more celebratory 
connotation, for the batter who circles the bases with pride with the adulation 
of the home crowd. Sportscasters also use the term "walk-off hit" if any 
kind of hit drives in the winning run to end the game. The terms "walk-off 
hit by pitch", "walk-off walk" (a base on balls with the bases loaded), 
"walk-off wild pitch", "walk-off reach-on-error", "walk-off steal of home", 
"walk-off passed ball", and "walk-off balk" have been also applied, and 
the latter has been dubbed a "balk-off". It is a separate stretch of the 
term to call a hit a walk-off when what ends the game is not the hit but 
the defense's failure to make a play (as in a single with a possible out 
at the plate). The day after Eric Bruntlett pulled off a game-ending unassisted 
triple play for the Philadelphia Phillies against the New York Mets on 
August 23, 2009, the Philadelphia Daily News used the term "walk-off triple 
play" in a subheadline describing the moment. Starting in the 1990s, a 
walk-off grand slam that erases a three-run deficit has come to be known 
as an ultimate grand slam.[2][3][4] There have been 28 such instances documented 
in major league history – all taking place during the regular season,[5] 
15 of those coming with two outs.[6] No player has accomplished this more 
than once.[5] Of the 28 home runs, only Roberto Clemente's was hit inside 
the park, at spacious Forbes Field on July 25, 1956.[a] Pirates manager/third 
base coach Bobby Bragan instructed him to stop at third, but Clemente ran 
through the stop sign to score the winning run.[9] Alan Trammell's June 
21, 1988 [10] and Chris Hoiles' May 17, 1996 grand slams occurred under 
the cliché situation: bases loaded, two outs, full count, bottom of the 
ninth inning, and down by three runs. This was later referred to as the 
ultimate, ultimate grand slam. The most recent "ultimate grand slam" was 
by Rajai Davis, who performed the feat in the ninth inning as the Detroit 
Tigers beat the Oakland Athletics 5–4 on June 30, 2014. Only four pitchers 
in major league history have surrendered two game-ending grand slam home 
runs in one season, according to the Elias Sports Bureau: The rules of 
baseball[11] provide that: The first point above was problematic in the 
1976 American League Championship Series between the New York Yankees and 
the Kansas City Royals. The Yankees and Royals entered the bottom of the 
ninth inning of the decisive fifth game with the score tied, 6–6; Mark 
Littell was the pitcher for Kansas City, and Chris Chambliss was the first 
batter for New York. Chambliss hit Littell's first pitch into the right 
field bleachers to win the game and the American League pennant for the 
Yankees. However, Yankees fans ran onto the field at Yankee Stadium to 
celebrate the victory, and prevented Chambliss from rounding the bases 
and touching home plate. Recognizing the impossibility of Chambliss successfully 
negotiating the sea of people who had been on the field, umpires later 
escorted Chambliss back out to home plate and watched as he touched it 
with his foot, thereby making the Yankees victory "official". (A comment 
to Rule 4.09(b) permits the umpires to award the run if fans prevent the 
runner from touching home plate.) The third point above led to Robin Ventura's 
"Grand Slam Single" in the 1999 NLCS. In the bottom of the 15th inning, 
the New York Mets tied the score against the Atlanta Braves at 3–3. Ventura 
came to bat with the bases loaded, and hit a game winning grand slam to 
deep right. Roger Cedeño scored from third and John Olerud appeared to 
score from second, but Todd Pratt, on first base when Ventura hit the home 
run, went to second, then turned around and hugged Ventura as the rest 
of the team rushed onto the field. The official ruling was that because 
Ventura never advanced past first base, it was not a home run but a single, 
and thus only Cedeño's run counted, making the official final score 4–3. 
The fourth point above was not a rule prior to 1920; instead, the game 
ended at the moment the winning run scored. This rule affected the scoring 
of 40 hits, from 1884 to 1918, that would now be scored as game-winning 
home runs.[12] Babe Ruth would have been credited with 715 career home 
runs had the modern rule been in effect in 1918; in a 10-inning game Ruth's 
fence-clearing, walk-off RBI hit was scored a triple because the game was 
deemed over when the lead baserunner reached home.[13] In the charts below, 
home runs that ended a postseason series are denoted by the player's name 
in bold. Home runs in which the winning team was trailing at the time are 
denoted by the final score in bold. Follow the linked year on the far left 
