In baseball statistics, walks plus hits per inning pitched (WHIP) is a 
sabermetric measurement of the number of baserunners a pitcher has allowed 
per inning pitched. WHIP reflects a pitcher's propensity for allowing batters 
to reach base, therefore a lower WHIP indicates better performance. WHIP 
is calculated by adding the number of walks and hits allowed and dividing 
this sum by the number of innings pitched.[1] The stat was invented in 
1979 by writer Daniel Okrent,[1] who called the metric "innings pitched 
ratio" at the time. Okrent excluded hit batsmen from the numerator of baserunners 
allowed since Sunday newspapers did not include hit batsmen in their statistical 
updates.[2] WHIP near 1.00 or lower over the course of a season will often 
rank among the league leaders in Major League Baseball (MLB). While earned 
run average (ERA) measures the runs a pitcher gives up, WHIP more directly 
measures a pitcher's effectiveness against batters.[1] WHIP accounts for 
pitcher performance regardless of errors and unearned runs. WHIP is one 
of the few sabermetric statistics to enter mainstream baseball usage.[2] 
On-base plus slugging, or OPS, a comparable measurement of the ability 
of a hitter, is another example of comparison. In addition to its use in 
live games, the WHIP is one of the most commonly used statistics in fantasy 
baseball and is standard in fantasy leagues that employ 4×4, 5×5, and 6×6 
formats. The lowest single-season WHIP in MLB history is 0.7373 from Pedro 
Martínez pitching for the Boston Red Sox in 2000, which broke the previous 
record of 0.77 from Guy Hecker of the Louisville Eclipse. Cleveland Indians 
right-handed pitcher Addie Joss currently holds the MLB record for the 
lowest career WHIP, with a 0.9678 WHIP in 2,327 innings.[1] Chicago White 
Sox spitballer Ed Walsh ranks second, with a 0.9996 WHIP in 2,964 innings, 
the lowest career WHIP for a qualified pitcher with 10 or more seasons 
pitched. Reliever Mariano Rivera ranks third among qualified pitchers with 
a career WHIP of 1.000 in 1,283 2⁄3 innings, the lowest mark by any pitcher 
from the live-ball era. Providence Grays and New York Gothams right-hander 
Monte Ward is fourth all time with a career WHIP of 1.0435, followed by 
Clayton Kershaw, whose 1.0439 career WHIP is the lowest of any starting 
