Wally the Green Monster is the official mascot for the Boston Red Sox. 
His name is derived from the Green Monster, the nickname of the 37-foot 
2-inch wall in left field at Fenway Park. Wally debuted on April 13, 1997 
to the chagrin of many older Red Sox fans. Although he was a big hit with 
children, older fans did not immediately adopt him as part of the franchise. 
As of 2009, Wally has become more accepted by Red Sox fans of all ages, 
largely due to broadcaster Jerry Remy creating stories about him and sharing 
them during televised games. Wally's official birthday is May 15. According 
to the Red Sox, Wally the Green Monster has long been a resident of Fenway 
Park, residing in the Green Monster wall since 1947. Wally has seen many 
legendary outfielders (and even a few National Baseball Hall of Famers) 
play Left Field and master the infamous "Green Monster" at Fenway. In 1997, 
Wally emerged from the wall to everyone's surprise on Opening Day. After 
15 years, Wally has become a family favorite and entertains the crowds 
of fans who come to Fenway to see the Red Sox play. He wears Red Sox Jersey 
#97, indicating the Year of his emergence from the Wall, and his trusty 
Team-Issued Size 37 ballcap is never far from his green head. In his spare 
time Wally likes to play catch with the Red Sox players, read his favorite 
book "Hello, Wally" written by his good friend and NESN Red Sox Broadcaster 
Jerry Remy, and sneak into the concession stands when no one is looking 
to grab a bite - or more, to eat. He prepares for every Red Sox game by 
eating a good meal, watching batting practice, and tuning into Red Sox 
Pregame as he ties up his shoes and grabs his trusty Red Sox flag. As pregame 
starts, Wally is on the field greeting fans near Field Level by taking 
pictures, signing autographs and sneaking in a kiss or two to the many 
fans of Red Sox Nation. After photo ops with some of Fenway's special guests 
of the game, he can be seen waving his flag and cheering on the Red Sox 
as the starting lineups are announced. The National Anthem is performed 
for all 37,000+ fans at Fenway and Wally, along with his special friend 
of the game, yell every baseball fans two favorite words, "PLAY BALL" and 
the game is ready to begin. Wally is a busy monster throughout the game. 
From doing seat visits for some special guests, to jumping up on the dugout 
to sing "Take Me Out to the Ball Game" during the seventh-inning stretch, 
Wally stays plenty busy meeting and greeting the fans of Red Sox Nation. 
And on weekends, Wally can be seen out on Yawkey Way taking pictures with 
fans who visit the "street fair atmosphere" of Wally's World around the 
Third Inning of the ballgame. Some of Wally's memorable moments of being 
the Red Sox Mascot have come away from Fenway. Whether it is traveling 
to Fort Myers, Florida and jetBlue Park for Red Sox spring training or 
visiting other cities for special events, Wally is a well traveled monster. 
For example, this last December Wally was invited to Washington, D.C. to 
perform with Smokey Robinson in a tribute to a Red Sox favorite, and Music 
Legend, Neil Diamond (Writer/Performer of "Sweet Caroline") at the Kennedy 
Center for Performing Arts. When he was told that President Obama, his 
family, Mr. Diamond and many other celebrities would be in attendance, 
Wally knew he could not do it alone. He made some calls and brought 100 
members of Red Sox Nation to Washington to perform on stage alongside him. 
Wally also travels to the Major League Baseball All Star Game every year 
to meet up with his furry friends from all over Major League Baseball for 
various fan-fests, signings and gatherings. Wally loves to meet new people 
and visit the various parts of Red Sox Nation. He can be rented by visiting 
the team's official website for various events.[1] Wally has an ongoing 
rivalry with Tampa Bay Rays' mascot Raymond. Before the Red Sox play a 
series in Tampa Bay, Raymond typically attacks or pranks either Wally or 
the visiting broadcast booth where the miniature Wally stays with Remy 
and Dave O'Brien. Raymond's more publicized attacks have involved running 
Wally over with a four-wheeler and hanging over 40 miniature Raymond dolls 
in the visiting broadcasters' booth. Another rivalry that Wally takes part 
in every year is the competition between himself and his Fort Myers Spring 
Training Counterpart, T.C. Bear of the Minnesota Twins for the All Star 
Game Mascot Home Run Derby Crown. T.C. Bear got the better of the competition 
for the first couple years, but Wally struck back in 2011 with a laser-show 
