Wallace Edward Bunker (born January 25, 1945) is a former Major League 
Baseball pitcher. A right-hander, Bunker pitched for the Baltimore Orioles 
from 1963 to 1968 and Kansas City Royals from 1969 to 1971. Bunker pitched 
for the Capuchino High School varsity baseball team in San Bruno, California 
in 1962 and 1963, as the team won the Mid-Peninsula League championships. 
He also played on the varsity basketball team.[1][verification needed] 
The Baltimore Orioles had ranked him and Dave Boswell as the two best pitching 
prospects in the country. Not able to afford giving each of them huge bonuses, 
the ballclub only signed Bunker after being disappointed by Boswell's performance 
in his senior year of high school.[2] As a 19-year-old in 1964, Bunker 
won his first six starts of the season, the first of which was a 2-1 one-hitter 
over the Washington Senators. He became the ace of a staff that also featured 
Milt Pappas and Robin Roberts. Bunker finished the season 19-5 (to date, 
the 19 wins are an Oriole rookie single-season record) with a 2.69 earned-run 
average and won The Sporting News American League Rookie pitcher of the 
Year Award. He also received the only first-place vote not won by Tony 
Oliva for the Rookie of the Year honors. That year, the Orioles fell short 
of the American League pennant, finishing in third place; the New York 
Yankees won their fifth consecutive pennant, finishing one game ahead of 
the Chicago White Sox and two games ahead of the Orioles. So popular had 
Bunker become in his rookie season that Baltimore mayor Theodore McKeldin, 
prior to a June 17 game at Memorial Stadium, proclaimed the mound "Baltimore's 
Bunker Hill"—even christening it with a handful of earth from the actual 
Bunker Hill. Bunker then defeated the then-first place White Sox 6-1, the 
victory putting the Orioles in first place. Sixteen days later, he pitched 
his second one-hitter of the season, defeating the Kansas City Athletics 
4-0, the lone hit being Rocky Colavito's fourth-inning double. After Bunker's 
rookie season, arm ailments — most likely torn tendons or ligaments of 
some kind, which often went undiagnosed in Bunker's era — in subsequent 
seasons prevented him from enjoying a 1964 sequel. A "sore arm" (which, 
according to Bunker, he incurred in late September 1964, on a cold night 
in Cleveland) during the 1965 season reduced him to a part-time starter 
afterwards. He posted a 10-8 record that year and a 10-6 record in 1966. 
In the latter year, the Orioles won the World Series in a four-game sweep 
of the defending champion Los Angeles Dodgers. In Game 3 of that Series, 
Bunker outdueled Claude Osteen with a six-hit, 1-0 shutout, which was sandwiched 
between shutouts by Jim Palmer and Dave McNally as the Orioles set a Series 
record by not allowing a run for 33 1⁄3 consecutive innings. (Moe Drabowsky 
pitched 6 1⁄3 scoreless innings in relief in Game One to begin the streak.) 
Following that triumph, Bunker was honored by the San Bruno City Council 
and served as honorary mayor at a council meeting.[3][verification needed] 
In 1968 the Kansas City Royals selected Bunker in the expansion draft, 
and he was their winningest pitcher in 1969 with a 12-11 record. On April 
8 of that year, he threw the very first pitch in Kansas City Royals history. 
The Royals defeated the Minnesota Twins 4-3 in 12 innings, with Drabowsky 
(whom the Royals had also acquired from Baltimore in the expansion draft) 
gaining the victory in relief. After the 1969 season, the arm troubles 
that limited Bunker to a part-time starter shortened his career. After 
slumping to 2-11 in 1970, he was released in May, 1971. Bunker had pitched 
his final major-league game at just 26 years of age. In his career, Bunker 
won 60 games against 52 losses, with 569 strikeouts and a 3.51 earned-run 
average in 1,085⅓ innings pitched. He was also a weak hitter in those days 
prior to the designated hitter, with only 31 hits in 331 at-bats for a 
.094 batting average. Bunker's sinker was his most effective pitch in his 
short career. Mickey Mantle once referred to Bunker's sinker as the type 
of pitch "you could break your back on." [4] While Bunker and his wife 
Kathy were Artists in Residence at Palm Key Nature Getaway in Ridgeland, 
South Carolina.[5][6] they began writing and illustrating children's literature 
under the new "Wal-De-Mar, Friends and Such" collection. "A Lowcountry 
Tale Concerning Wal-De-Mar Wiggins" [7] (published April 2015) introduces 
children to a quaint little bird born in South Carolina's Lowcountry. In 
"I Am Me", (published April 2015) Wal-De-Mar dreams of who he could be 
and realizes the value of being himself. Wally and Kathy now live in Coeur 
d'Alene, Idaho and plan to release other Wal-De-Mar, Friends and Such books 
