As manager Walter Wayne Backman (born September 22, 1959) is a former Major 
League Baseball second baseman. He is best known for his time with the 
New York Mets from 1980-1988 and was a member of their 1986 World Series-winning 
team. Backman is the former Manager for the Las Vegas 51s, the Mets' AAA 
minor league team (beginning in 2013 season). Backman was the Mets' first 
round pick in the 1977 Major League Baseball draft (sixteenth overall). 
He was assigned to the New York–Penn League's Little Falls Mets upon signing, 
and batted .325 with six home runs in his first professional season. After 
batting .293 for the triple A Tidewater Tides in 1980, Backman received 
a September call up to the Mets. Making his major league debut starting 
at second base against the Los Angeles Dodgers at Dodger Stadium on September 
2, Backman got a single in his first at-bat, driving in Claudell Washington 
for his first major league run batted in. [1] After battling for three 
seasons to earn a starting job, Backman finally emerged as the Mets' starting 
second baseman in 1984. He batted .280, and finished second on the club 
to Mookie Wilson (46) with 32 stolen bases. Prior to the start of the 1986 
season, general manager Frank Cashen brought in Tim Teufel, a right-handed 
hitting infielder from the Minnesota Twins for Billy Beane, Joe Klink and 
Bill Latham. He and Backman formed a platoon at second base, and along 
with Wilson and Lenny Dykstra, provided a "spark" at the top of the Mets' 
line up, and set the table for the heavy hitters who batted behind them. 
For his own part, Backman scored 67 runs, stole 13 bases and batted over 
.300 (.320) for the first time in his career for the team that won 108 
games and took the National League East by 21.5 games. He batted .333 in 
the World Series against the Boston Red Sox and led off for the Mets in 
the now famous tenth inning of Game 6 with a fly out to Jim Rice. Backman 
and Teufel were still platooning at second base in 1988 when the Mets won 
their division for the second time during Backman's tenure with the team. 
Backman batted .303 for the division winners, and the Mets won 100 games 
that season, taking the NL East by fifteen games over the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
However, the heavily favored Mets lost to the Los Angeles Dodgers in the 
1988 National League Championship Series. Backman played respectably in 
the division series (.273 avg., 2 runs, 2 RBIs). However, following the 
season, the Mets sent him and Mike Santiago to the Minnesota Twins for 
Jeff Bumgarner, Steve Gasser and Toby Nivens, none of whom emerged as a 
major leaguer. Backman under-performed with the Twins, batting only .231 
with one home run and 33 runs scored while driving in only 26 in 1989. 
After only one season in Minnesota, Backman signed as a free agent with 
the Mets' division rivals, the Pittsburgh Pirates. With slick fielder José 
Lind already at second base for the Pirates, Backman received most of his 
playing time backing up Jeff King at third. The Pirates opened the 1990 
against the Mets at Shea Stadium. In front of his former home crowd, Backman 
went two for five with a single and triple and scored two runs in the Pirates' 
12-3 victory over the Mets.[2] Against the San Diego Padres on April 27, 
Backman accomplished the rare feat of six hits in a nine inning game.[3] 
For the season, Backman batted .292 and scored 62 runs for a Pirates team 
that went 95-67, and took the division by four games over the Mets. Backman 
spent 1991 and 1992 with the Philadelphia Phillies. He signed with the 
1992 National League Champion Atlanta Braves, for 1993, but failed to make 
the team out of Spring training. He joined the Seattle Mariners, but was 
released 38 games into the season with a .138 batting average with only 
two runs scored in 31 plate appearances. Backman had a career .980 fielding 
percentage at second base. After retiring as a player, Backman was inducted 
into the Oregon Sports Hall of Fame in 2002. In 1998, Backman managed the 
Bend Bandits of Bend, Oregon during their final season of operations in 
the Western Baseball League. They finished 2nd in the North Division at 
43-46.[4] Backman led the 2002 Birmingham Barons (Chicago White Sox double 
A Southern League affiliate) to a 79–61 record. In 2004, he led the Lancaster 
Jethawks, the Arizona Diamondbacks High A team, to an 86–54 record and 
was named Sporting News "Minor League Manager of the Year". On November 
1, 2004, Backman was promoted to manager of the Arizona Diamondbacks' major 
league squad.[5] However, in its story about Backman's hire, The New York 
Times reported that Backman had serious legal and financial problems. He 
had also been arrested in 1999 for DUI in Kennewick, Washington as documented 
on HBO Real Sports with Bryant Gumbel. A year later, he was arrested in 
connection with an altercation in his home in Prineville, Oregon. In addition, 
Backman declared bankruptcy to avoid paying over twenty creditors, including 
the IRS.[6][7] The Diamondbacks initially stood by him,[8] but fired him 
on November 5 before ever managing a game. Managing partner Ken Kendrick 
said that Backman had lied about his past, and only learned about the extent 
of Backman's problems when the Times report prompted the team to conduct 
its own investigation.[9] Backman began his managerial comeback with the 
South Georgia Peanuts of the independent South Coast League. His return 
to managing was documented by the TV series Playing for Peanuts. The Peanuts 
won their league with a 59–28 record. On June 26, 2007, during a game in 
Anderson, South Carolina, Backman was involved in a profanity-laced tirade. 
After outfielder Doc Brooks was ejected for arguing balls and strikes, 
Backman confronted the home plate umpire to ask why his player had been 
ejected from the game before being ejected himself as well. Backman then 
covered home plate with dirt while awaiting an answer to the question of 
why he was being ejected, which was never given by the umpire. Backman 
argued with the umpire again before returning to the dugout, where he tossed 
bats onto the field as well as a bucket full of baseballs. During this, 
Backman repeatedly asked players on the field to move out of the way before 
tossing the bats and he did so in a calm fashion. As a result of the incident, 
the home plate umpire who had ejected Backman and Brooks was issued a fine 
by the league, while Backman and his player who were ejected (Brooks) received 
no further penalties or fines stemming from this event. The South Georgia 
Peanuts then went on to win the league championship that season under Backman's 
lead. In December 2007, Backman became manager of the Joliet JackHammers.[10] 
With the team in sixth place in the Northern League with a 24–42 record, 
he was fired on July 30, 2009.[11] In October 2009, Backman's name circulated 
as a likely candidate for the Mets' double A managerial job with the Binghamton 
Mets; however, the Mets decided instead to promote Teufel from the St. 
Lucie Mets, and Backman was given the St. Lucie job.[12] Two weeks later, 
the Mets changed their minds, and Backman was handed the reins to the Brooklyn 
Cyclones instead.[13] Backman went on to lead the Cyclones to a league-best 
51-24 record, winning the McNamara Division of the New York–Penn League 
by 12 games. However, the Cyclones were ultimately swept by the Tri-City 
ValleyCats in the league championship series. Backman was a candidate to 
replace Jerry Manuel as the New York Mets' major league manager in 2011, 
having interviewed for the position with new General Manager Sandy Alderson. 
After a second round of interviews in which Backman was a finalist,[14] 
however, the position went to Terry Collins. Backman was subsequently named 
manager of the Mets' double A affiliate, the Binghamton Mets.[15] In Backman's 
first season in Binghamton, the club had a 65-76 record. Backman remains 
highly regarded in the Mets organization, and was promoted to manager of 
their AAA affiliate, the Buffalo Bisons[16] for the 2012 season. In 2013, 
Backman managed the Mets' new AAA affiliate, the Las Vegas 51s, leading 
them to an 81-63 record and winning the Pacific Coast League's Pacific 
South Division title. Las Vegas lost to Salt Lake three-games-to-one in 
the Conference Championship Series. Backman returned to the 51s for the 
2014 season, and the team once again advanced to the playoffs. On August 
29, 2014, Backman was announced as the PCL Manager of the Year. Backman 
has been described as a players' manager and noted for his "old school" 
style, as well as for his frequent use of humor when delivering news of 
a promotion to the major leagues.[17] Backman resigned on September 12, 
