Walter John Hriniak (born May 22, 1943, at Natick, Massachusetts) is a 
former catcher in American Major League Baseball who — despite a very brief 
MLB playing career and a batting average of only .253 — became one of the 
most prominent batting coaches in the game during the last two decades 
of the 20th century. As a player, he stood 5 feet 11 inches (1.80 m) tall, 
weighed 178 pounds (81 kg), batted left-handed and threw right-handed. 
Hriniak was a three-sport star at Natick High School where he was a first-team 
All-State selection in all three sports: as quarterback in football, center 
in hockey, and shortstop in baseball. He was also voted the outstanding 
hockey player in eastern Massachusetts and some speculated that he could 
have pursued a career in professional hockey.[citation needed] Instead, 
he chose baseball and signed a $75,000 bonus contract with the Milwaukee 
Braves in 1961. Initially a shortstop in the pros, Hriniak batted over 
.300 in each of his first two professional seasons, but in 1964, while 
playing for the Austin Senators in the Double-A Texas League, he was seriously 
injured in a car accident that took the life of a teammate (pitcher Jerry 
Hummitzsch)[1] and was on the disabled list for nearly three months. It 
would take Hriniak almost four seasons to regain his batting stroke. By 
then, 1968, he had become a catcher and utilityman, and was no longer a 
top prospect. But during that season, with the Shreveport Braves of the 
Texas League, Hriniak was managed by Charlie Lau, who soon would become 
the most celebrated batting instructor in Major League Baseball during 
the 1970s. Hriniak hit .313 and was promoted to the MLB Braves that September; 
more important, he adopted Lau's theories about hitting and would use them 
as the basis for his instruction after his playing career had ended. He 
also became Lau's close friend.[2] Hriniak would play only those few weeks 
in 1968 plus the 1969 season at the Major League level, for the Braves 
(by then based in Atlanta) and the San Diego Padres. He appeared in 47 
games, batted 99 times, and hit .253 with no home runs, no extra base hits, 
and four runs batted in. His 25 singles is the post-1900 record for all 
non-pitchers with no extra base hits. By 1972, he had become a minor league 
manager in the Montreal Expos organization. At age 30, Hriniak became a 
Major League coach for the first time, coaching first base for Gene Mauch's 
Expos in 1974–75. After Mauch's firing, Hriniak was reassigned to the minor 
leagues by Montreal in 1976, then was hired as bullpen coach by the Boston 
Red Sox for the 1977 season. He earned a reputation as a tireless worker, 
especially as a batting practice pitcher. He threw so many innings of "BP", 
he damaged his right shoulder permanently.[2] Although the Red Sox had 
no formal batting coach until Johnny Pesky's appointment to that job in 
1980, some Boston players began approaching Hriniak about his theories 
on hitting, and he began to work with them before and after games. By the 
early 1980s, future Baseball Hall of Fame members Carl Yastrzemski and 
Wade Boggs, as well as All-Stars Dwight Evans and Rich Gedman, were Hriniak 
disciples. With Pesky's retirement after the 1984 season, Hriniak was promoted 
to Red Sox batting coach. He concurrently served as first-base coach for 
the 1986–87 seasons. Hriniak's batting theories had many adherents among 
Red Sox players, but he also had detractors. Ted Williams, the Hall of 
Fame hitter and all-time Boston great, was outspoken in his criticism of 
Hriniak's methods. Williams and his followers felt that Hriniak robbed 
his hitters of extra-base power by teaching them to hit the ball up the 
middle, "swing down on the ball", or to take the upper hand off the bat 
at the end of their swing — which may have been oversimplifications of 
Hriniak's philosophies. "I don't have a problem with Ted Williams", Hriniak 
told Yankee Magazine in 1986. "He teaches his way, and I teach mine. I 
don't teach a level swing, a downward swing, or an uppercut swing. Hitters 
are all different, so I teach all three ... You don't have to hit my way, 
you don't have to hit his way. Just make up your minds. Don't keep changing 
lanes. You can't hit when you're confused."[2] Finally, after 12 years 
with Boston, four as the team's official batting coach, Hriniak moved to 
the Chicago White Sox in 1989 as one of the highest-paid coaches in baseball. 
(Lau was serving the White Sox' batting coach in 1984 when he succumbed 
to colorectal cancer at age 50. Hriniak wore Lau's old No. 6 uniform in 
tribute during his Chicago tenure.) Hriniak coached White Sox hitters for 
seven years, through 1995, before opening his own hitting school and becoming 
a private batting instructor. Former White Sox slugger Frank Thomas was 
one of his most loyal adherents. When basketball great Michael Jordan surprised 
the sports world in 1994 by signing a minor league baseball contract with 
the White Sox, Hriniak was brought in to help him with his batting technique. 
Jordan's baseball career was a brief one, batting only .202 for the Birmingham 
Barons, the White Sox' Double-A affiliate. In 1989, Hriniak authored A 
Hitting Clinic: The Walt Hriniak Way, which outlined his theories of batting 
and included participation from Boggs, Evans and Gedman. In June, 2010, 
Hriniak was elected as a charter member of the Natick High School Athletic 
Hall of Fame in recognition of his many sports achievements while still 
in high school.[3] In 2004, he was also elected to his high school's Wall 
of Achievement which honors alumni for their exceptional achievements and 
