Walter Johnson High School (WJHS) is located at 6400 Rock Spring Drive 
in Bethesda, Maryland.[1] WJHS serves portions of Bethesda, North Bethesda, 
and Rockville, as well as the towns of Garrett Park and Kensington. Walter 
Johnson High School was founded in 1956 as part of the Montgomery County 
Public School system (MCPS). The school is named in honor of the late Washington 
Senators' baseball pitcher, Walter Johnson, who resided in a Bethesda house 
which still stands just a few miles away from the school on Old Georgetown 
Road. After retiring from baseball, Walter Johnson became a county commissioner 
for Montgomery County. During the late 1950s and early 1960s, when the 
outer suburbs of Washington were within five minutes' drive of the Beltway, 
Walter Johnson was viewed as a "country" or "outer-suburban" school. The 
school was surrounded by farms and livestock, notably cow herds. Yearbooks 
indicate that, although at first Walter Johnson's rival high school may 
have been Richard Montgomery High School in Rockville, Maryland, as early 
as 1960 a heated rivalry arose between Walter Johnson and Bethesda-Chevy 
Chase High School in Bethesda, which lasted several decades. During the 
1972/73 academic year, "WJ" experimented with a 90-minute mid-day "activity 
period" in which no formal classes were held and students were encouraged 
to occupy themselves voluntarily with extracurricular activities, which 
could include simply socializing or reading a book, as well as organized 
extracurricular activities. This unstructured approach to education was 
intended to encourage creativity and individuality. The activity period 
was cut back to two days a week in subsequent years, and has since been 
removed entirely. Despite numerous renovations, the original building still 
stands. Additional wings have been added to the school on either end and 
classrooms have been modernized. A new cafeteria was added to the school 
in 2003, and a student commons area was added in 2009 as a part of a school-wide 
renovation which took several years. "The Clock", well-known to students, 
is still in working order and resides in the front hallway above the two 
golden plaques of the Wildcat and Spartan. Enrollment increased from just 
a few hundred students in 1956 to 1600 students in 1960 and 2,000 students 
by 2005. During tremendous growth of the D.C. metropolitan area, particularly 
during the Vietnam Era of the late 1960s and early 1970s, the school's 
environment changed from countryside to that of a major metropolitan suburb. 
Starting in fall of 2007, 1⁄3 of WJHS had been placed under construction, 
replaced by 44 portables (nicknamed the "portable city"). WJHS was completed 
in 2010, which included a 'Student Commons' and a public space for all 
students. The space was completed in the second phase of the process. A 
new wing houses new ESOL, English and language rooms that are easily accessible 
from the rest of the ground floor. When it first opened in 1956, its original 
mascot was the Spartan. In 1987, the students of neighboring Charles W. 
Woodward High School merged into WJHS and the Woodward building eventually 
became the new site of Tilden Middle School in 1991. The students were 
allowed to vote on the new merged school colors and mascot, with the requirement 
that one school would keep their colors while the other school would keep 
their mascot. Woodward's "Wild Thing the Wildcat" and WJHS school colors—green 
and white, won out. The unofficial mascot of the school is "Mighty Moo", 
a large brown cow. Early in Walter Johnson's history cows used to roam 
onto the football fields at various times. As seen in Walter Johnson yearbooks 
from the 1960s, the Mighty Moo character originated as a painting by an 
ambitious and very bold WJ student (who shall remain nameless), who painted 
a cartoon cow on the brick chimney at the back of the school, overlooking 
the football field, large enough to be clearly visible from cars passing 
by on Democracy Boulevard. Making lemons into lemonade, Walter Johnson 
adopted the cow as its unofficial mascot under the name Mighty Moo. Later 
yearbooks show that, even as the area became urbanized, the cows remained 
nearby and continued to graze across Rock Spring Drive from the school, 
pasturing in the shadows of high-rise office buildings through the late 
1970s. Even though the cows are now gone, Mighty Moo remains a mascot of 
Walter Johnson. One of Walter Johnson's signature programs is Advanced 
Placement Experience (APEX), and is designed to be a highly competitive 
four-year course of study. Prospective students apply during their eighth 
grade year, and are notified of their admission in the early spring prior 
to their ninth grade year. The application process includes submitting 
a list of activities, four teacher evaluations, and a writing sample. The 
program offers a select group of students a comprehensive curriculum combining 
accelerated honors and advanced placement level coursework.[2] Additional 
programs include Advanced Curriculum for Excellence in Science (ACES) as 
well as Linguistic Excellence And Discovery (LEAD!). The ACES Scholars 
Program offers students a challenging course of study in the science disciplines,[3] 
while the LEAD! Scholars Program is for students who wish to commit to 
a broad range of courses in World Languages.[4] The College Board ranked 
Walter Johnson's AP World History program as the best in the world.[5] 
Walter Johnson High School was rated as one of "America's Best High Schools" 
by Newsweek magazine and was ranked 148 for best public high schools in 
the nation for 2013.[6] WJHS's "It's Academic" team won the Washington 
Area Championship and the mid-Atlantic Super Bowl in 2005 and in 2007. 
The team has also had several of its members elected to the All-State team, 
the most successful team at the Panasonic Academic Challenge. The Walter 
Johnson Debate Team has been county champion every year since 2003 and 
was also county champion from 1993 to 2000. The Forensics Team has been 
county champion every year since 2001 and achieved either 2nd, 3rd or 4th 
Place in the County League from 1990 to 2000. The Walter Johnson Science 
Olympiad team has won the state championship and attended the National 
Tournament four times. Walter Johnson also boasts numerous student-run 
clubs, including a UNICEF club, a Harry Potter club, and the Walter Johnson 
Tea Club. All tournaments and finals are conducted by the Maryland Public 
Secondary Schools Athletic Association (MPSSAA). Walter Johnson won the 
Bi-County Championship (the athletic league formed by the high schools 
of Montgomery and Prince Georges Counties) during the fall season of 1962. 
"The Washington Post" ranked the Spartans the number one football team 
in the DC metropolitan area that year. In the 1970s The Spartans did not 
do well, but in 1980, they had a successful season with a 6–4 record. This 
was the last winning season for the team as The Spartans. During the 1998 
season the team, then known as the Wildcats, managed to have an 8-game 
win streak. Ending the season at 8–2, it was the school's best season win 
total. They ranked 7th in the Metro D.C. area for that year. In 2010, as 
they ended their season, 6–4, one win away from making the playoffs. They 
have averaged about 3 points a game since and have not made the playoffs. 
1997 European league champions Coordinates: 39°01′34″N 77°08′06″W﻿ / ﻿39.026110°N 
