WAPA-TV, virtual channel 4 (UHF digital channel 27), is an independent 
television station located in San Juan, Puerto Rico. The station is owned 
by Hemisphere Media Group, a joint venture between InterMedia Partners 
(which owns a 73% interest) and Azteca Acquisition Corporation (which owns 
27%). WAPA-TV maintains studios at Avenida Luis Vigoreaux in Guaynabo, 
and its transmitter is located near the Bosque Estatal de Carite mountain 
reserve. The station's signal is relayed throughout Puerto Rico through 
two full-power satellite stations: WTIN-TV (channel 14) in Ponce and WNJX-TV 
(channel 22) in Mayagüez. WAPA-TV began broadcasting on May 1, 1954, as 
the second television station to be licensed to Puerto Rico. Its call letters 
are a partial abbreviation of the station's original owners, the now-defunct 
Asociación de Productores de Azúcar, or Puerto Rico Sugar Grower's Association. 
During its earliest years, the station was affiliated with NBC, ABC, DuMont, 
and the CMQ Television Network.[1] The station was the first in the U.S. 
territory to transition to color unceremoniously in 1966, followed by WKAQ-TV 
in 1968. Popularly known in Puerto Rico by its assigned channel number, 
Canal Cuatro, the station was also known by its animated cartoon mascot 
during the 1970s and 1980s, a bongo-playing cat (known commonly as el gato 
de WAPA in Spanish) and therefore its slogan was Por el cuatro como el 
gato (colloquially "on four (legs) like the cat"), which rhymes in its 
original Spanish translation. Similarly, another station promo used the 
phrase, Hasta el gato, te-ve el cuatro and the cat itself was alternately 
known as el Gato de Cuatro. Like other mascots, El Gato was seen in different 
situations in different on-air promos. Besides playing the bongos, he would 
also play the drums and was seen in one station ID as a matador. Another 
promo had him interacting with a cat seen in a Telemundo ad. El Gato would 
also sometimes be accompanied by his wife and children (one boy and one 
girl), where they appeared flying in a helicopter shaped like the channel's 
"4" logo and celebrated the holidays while playing musical instruments. 
WAPA-TV's competitors include WKAQ-TV (Telemundo), WLII (Univision Puerto 
Rico) and former PBS station WIPR-TV (now the independent public-broadcasting 
Puerto Rico TV). WAPA-TV and WKAQ-TV have battled for the title of Puerto 
Rico's most-watched television station since the 1950s, with WLII entering 
the battle in the mid-1980s. During the 1980s and early 1990s, the station 
became very successful by mixing American shows translated to Spanish with 
locally produced sitcoms such as Cuqui, Cara o Cruz, Entrando por la Cocina, 
Carmelo y Punto and Barrio Cuatro Calles. But it still trailed behind WKAQ-TV 
as the second most-watched Puerto Rican station. In the early 1990s, WAPA 
rebranded itself with the slogans "WAPA'lla!" (a catchy slang variation 
of "Vamos pa'lla", or "Let's go!") and "WAPA, aqui con la gente" ("WAPA, 
here with the people"). These slogans were accompanied by a catchy musical 
score and vivid, colorful graphics depicting the channel's logo. In 1994, 
WAPA was the first television station in Puerto Rico to use high-end graphic 
animations to animate a new logo, created and animated by Pixel Light Studios 
in New York City. This gave the station a very "American" on-air appearance. 
The logo, although graphically pleasing, was slowly dropped in favor of 
the classical number 4 logo. High end graphics were later altogether dropped 
for cheaper, in-house graphics. In 1997, under the helm of former Univision 
executive Miguel Banojian, WAPA-TV achieved its biggest increases in viewership 
ever. During Mr. Banojian's tenure, the network produced more local programming 
than ever before, increasing its local news programming, and broadcasting 
several sporting events including "Serie Del Caribe" (the Caribe edition 
of the U.S. baseball World Series) and World Boxing Championship events 
produced in partnership with Don King. In 1998, WAPA again rebranded itself 
with a new name and logo; "Televicentro" (a brand that was used previously 
during the 1970s and 1980s). It has also regained its position as a major 
Puerto Rican television station, mainly due to its new focus on locally 
produced programming. Its new slogan, "Como tú, boricua" ("Boricua like 
you"—a nod to the longtime colloquial nickname for Puerto Ricans) highlighted 
the fact that it was the only local commercial station remaining in Puerto 
Rico that was programmed locally. Despite the new name, local residents 
still referred to the station as either "el cuatro" or simply "WAPA". That 
same year, former WKAQ-TV general manager Joe Ramos was named president 
of WAPA-TV. In September 2004, WAPA-TV became the first Puerto Rican station, 
and the seventh television station in the U.S. (including territories) 
to become a satellite-distributed superstation. WAPA America can be seen 
in the U.S. mainland through DirecTV, and on various cable television providers 
including Comcast, RCN, Qwest and Cablevision. On October 19, 2006. LIN 
TV announced that it had entered into an agreement to sell its Puerto Rico 
television operations to InterMedia Partners for $130 million in cash.[1] 
The sale was completed on March 30, 2007. On December 17, 2007, the station 
changed its branding from Televicentro to wapa, in lowercase letters. Following 
the rebrand, the station began a developing a new format, changing its 
jingle and redesigning their website.[2][3] WAPA-TV signed an agreement 
with Miss Puerto Rico Universe to produce a reality show titled Por la 
corona, which debuted on August 15, 2008, in which the public is able to 
select which five of the participants moving directly to the pageant's 
semifinal via text messaging votes.[4] On January 23, 2013, InterMedia 
Partners announced that it would merge WAPA-TV and WAPA America, along 
with its stake in Cinelatino, with the shell corporation Azteca Acquisition 
Corporation (which is not associated with the Mexican-based Azteca group 
or the Azteca América network) to form Hemisphere Media Group. 73% of the 
new company will be owned by InterMedia.[5] On December 3, 2015, WAPA-TV, 
along with WIPR-TV went off-air, due to its transmitter outage at Cerro 
La Santa in Cayey. This station is still watchable on Liberty Channel 4, 
Choice Channel 4, Dish Network Channel 4, DIRECTV Channel 164 & Claro TV 
Channel 4. Station was repaired and placed back on air on Thursday December 
10, 2015. Repairs were made by WAPA's Engineering Department. WAPA-TV for 
years has shown boxing, BSN basketball, telenovelas, movies, comedies, 
sitcoms (both American and domestic), baseball, NFL football, both World 
Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) and Puerto Rican World Wrestling Council 
(WWC) professional wrestling and human interest shows. Current weekday 
programs: Weekend programs: Special programs: Online programs: Upcoming 
programming: Noticentro is the name of WAPA-TV's news division; the station 
presently broadcasts 40 hours of locally-produced newscasts each week (with 
seven hours on weekdays, and two hours each on Saturdays and Sundays). 
The news operation began in 1967 with Cuban-born Evelio Otero as the sole 
anchorman for the 10 p.m. newscast. Soon thereafter, Carlos Ruben Ortiz 
joined the news staff for the 6 p.m. broadcast. Evelio Otero remained by 
himself on camera, until his departure from WAPA in 1980 to take the senior 
editor position at the Voice of America in Washington. Carlos Ruben Ortiz 
shared the anchor slot at 6 p.m. with then newcomer Guillermo José Torres, 
a former radio announcer born in Juana Díaz, Puerto Rico who has since 
become the longest standing news anchor in the island, with a career spanning 
43 years (Torres retired on August 5, 2013). The format predated the NewsCenter 
format which become popular in NBC-owned stations in the 1970s. In its 
beginnings, Noticentro 4 ran for only fifteen minutes in the afternoon, 
with a half-hour edition at 10 p.m.; there was also a weekend edition. 
Gradually, the program's running time was increased to a full hour. After 
Otero's departure, New York City-born William "Bill" Pérez became WAPA's 
news director (Torres held the post for a while, but eventually asked to 
serve only as a news anchor). In the late 1970s, Enrique Cruz, Luz Nereida 
Vélez, Sylvia Gómez, Luis Rigual, Cyd Marie Fleming, Jose Esteves, Luis 
Francisco Ojeda and others joined the news department. In 1980, Noticentro 
4 inaugurated a new studio. In 1981, Pedro Rosa Nales joined the team. 
In 1982, Enrique Cruz Díaz, also known as Kike Cruz, substituted Torres 
as show director. In 1983, Rigual died, being substituted as main sports 
anchor by Rafael Bracero. Bobby Angleró joined the team of reporters as 
Bracero's main helper in 1984, the same year that the Coquí Satellite was 
inaugurated by the station. Coquí Satellite helped the station deliver 
breaking news quicker, and helped deliver the news on occasions such as 
the Challenger explosion, when Torres interrupted Ángela Meyer on her Chanita 
Gobernadora comedy section to break the news to the public only minutes 
after it had happened. In the early 2000s, WAPA-TV began using, a helicopter 
for newsgathering called SuperCóptero ("SuperChopper"). The SuperCóptero 
had mostly been used to report on traffic conditions in the metropolitan 
area on the 4:00 and 5:00 p.m. newscasts. WAPA-TV was the only local station 
to have a helicopter, but the SuperCóptero was soon discontinued from regular 
use due to budget cuts; WAPA now only uses the helicopter for special events 
such as elections and breaking news coverage. Noticentro runs a local cable 
channel, WAPA Tiempo, which features weather forecasts for Puerto Rico 
24 hours a day. Originally named El Canal del Tiempo (its name changed 
in order to avoid confusion with The Weather Channel cable network), it 
can be seen on all three cable companies serving Puerto Rico and was formerly 
broadcast on WAPA-TV digital subchannel 4.3, until September 1, 2012, when 
the subchannel was discontinued due to MLB postseason games broadcasting 
in HD on channel 4.2. WAPA-TV uses the same logo for Noticentro (formerly 
Noticentro 4), changing the word WAPA to Noticentro, but with the same 
red strips at the right. The music package previously used for the newscast 
was News Authority by 615 Music and has been used since 2004. In the past, 
the station used Newswatch 24, News One, Impact among others. Noticentro 
now uses the same music for all its segments and bumpers except for its 
news résumé "En Una Semana" ("In One Week"), which used the Noticentro 
4 graphics and music package from 1999, but now uses the current graphics 
and music package. WAPA Tiempo, for a time, used the old Noticentro 4 graphics 
and logo, but recently the channel received new graphics and logo to go 
with the "New WAPA" upbringing. In the next months to come, the station's 
newscasts will receive new graphics and a studio redesign along with the 
"New WAPA" initiative. This station's digital signal is multiplexed: WAPA-TV 
shut down its analog signal, over VHF channel 4, on June 12, 2009, the 
official date in which full-power television stations in the United States 
transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The 
station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 27.[7] 
Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's 
virtual channel as its former VHF analog channel 4. WAPA-TV can be seen 
