Warren Brown (January 3, 1894 - November 19, 1978) was an American sportswriter 
who spent the major portion of his career in Chicago, Illinois. In 1973 
Brown was given the J. G. Taylor Spink Award by the National Baseball Hall 
of Fame. Brown was born in Somersville, California, a mining town near 
San Francisco. His father Patrick was the local saloon keeper. When the 
Somersville mines flooded, the family moved to San Francisco, where Brown 
was a firsthand witness to the great 1906 San Francisco earthquake. Brown 
attended St. Ignatius College (later renamed The University of San Francisco) 
for his prep school as well as university years. During his college years 
Brown played baseball for the Sacramento minor league team in the summers. 
After getting his undergraduate degree he began his sportswriting career 
with the San Francisco Bulletin. After serving in U.S. Army intelligence 
stateside during World War I, Brown returned to the Bulletin, but soon 
moved to William Randolph Hearst's San Francisco Call & Post. Brown was 
one of the first sportswriters to hail a local boxer named Jack Dempsey. 
He also doubled as the paper's drama critic, specializing in vaudeville 
and musical comedy. In the early 1920s Brown was transferred to the Hearst 
paper in New York for a year. That is where he hired a young sportswriter 
named Ed Sullivan, who went on to be a society columnist and then a mid-century 
American icon with his TV variety show. Starting in 1920, Brown saw every 
World Series for fifty years. Brown's final move was to Chicago to be the 
sports editor of Hearsts Chicago Herald-Examiner. He was a sports editor, 
columnist and baseball beat writer (usually at the same time) for several 
Chicago papers over the next 40 years. Brown was a friend and confidant 
of legendary University of Notre Dame football coach Knute Rockne. Brown 
and former Notre Dame running back Marchy Schwartz had dinner with Rockne 
in Chicago the night before his ill fated plane crash. He wrote Rockne's 
biography in 1931. Long credited to Grantland Rice, Brown was actually 
the person that coined the nickname for fabled Illinois running back Red 
Grange. He wrote a column describing Grange's running style and said he 
was like a "Galloping Ghost." The nickname is one of the most famous in 
sports annals. Brown also coined the nickname "The Sultan of Swat" for 
legendary baseball icon Babe Ruth. As a beat writer and columnist he was 
known for his acerbic wit and breezy reporting style. Following the 1945 
World Series, he wrote a history of the Chicago Cubs as part of the Putnam 
series of books that covered all the major league baseball teams. Mr. Brown's 
famous quote from the 1945 World Series between the Cubs and Tigers of 
" I don't think either one of them is good enough to win it" usually surfaces 
as the Cubs reach rare playoff appearances. It was sufficiently well-received 
that The Chicago Cubs is one book in that series that has been periodically 
re-issued. In 1947 he wrote a memoir of sorts called Win, Lose or Draw. 
It was a collection of anecdotes about celebrated figures in sports Brown 
had crossed paths with in his first 30 years as a sportswriter. Brown's 
three sons were all athletes at the University of Notre Dame. Sons Bill 
and Pete were swimmers while youngest son, Roger, was a backup quarterback 
for the Fighting Irish on the 1946 and 1947 National Championship teams. 
Brown also had a daughter, Mary Elizabeth Rempe (née Brown). Warren Brown 
died at age 84 in Forest Park, Illinois and is buried in Queen of Heaven 
Cemetery in Hillside, Illinois next to his beloved wife and best friend, 
