Warren Livingston Cromartie (born September 29, 1953) is an American former 
professional baseball player best remembered for his early career with 
the Montreal Expos. He and fellow young outfielders Ellis Valentine and 
Andre Dawson were the talk of Major League Baseball (MLB) when they came 
up together with the Expos in the late seventies.[1] Nicknamed "Cro", he 
was incredibly popular with the fans in Montreal. He was the 1989 Nippon 
Professional Baseball Most Valuable Player Award during his career playing 
baseball in Japan for the Yomiuri Giants. Cromartie was the only child 
of Leroy and Marjorie Cromartie.[2] Leroy played quarterback at Florida 
A&M College, and led his team to Southern Intercollegiate Athletic Conference 
championships in 1944 and 1945. Having also played basketball and baseball 
in high school, he left FAMC to play semi-pro baseball with the Miami Giants, 
which led to a brief stint as a second baseman with the Cincinnati/Indianapolis 
Clowns of the Negro Leagues. After which, Leroy returned to FAMC, and led 
the Rattlers to another SIAC championship in 1947 and a national championship 
in 1950.[3] Upon graduation from Miami Jackson High School in 1971, Cromartie 
was drafted by the Chicago White Sox in the seventh round of that year's 
draft, but opted to instead attend Miami Dade College. Following this, 
he was drafted by three other teams (the Minnesota Twins in the third round 
of the January 1972 secondary draft, the San Diego Padres in the first 
round of June 1972 secondary draft, and the Oakland Athletics in the January 
1973 secondary draft) but did not sign with any of the clubs. Finally, 
when the Expos selected him in the first round of the June 1973 secondary 
draft, he signed. Cromartie batted .336 with thirteen home runs, 61 runs 
batted in and thirty stolen bases in his first professional season (1974) 
with the Quebec Carnavals. This performance earned him a September call-up 
to the major leagues all the way from double A. He went three-for-seventeen 
with three walks during his short stint with the Expos. He went into Spring 
training 1975 competing for the open right field job, but was sent to "Expoville," 
the Expos' minor league complex in Daytona Beach, for reassignment to the 
triple A Memphis Blues in late March.[4] After a disappointing 1975 season 
in Memphis, he rebounded nicely in 1976 to bat .337 for the American Association's 
Denver Bears, and receive a call up to the Expos in mid-August. He spent 
the rest of the season pretty much platooning with Ellis Valentine in right 
field, batting .210 with two RBIs. Both Cromartie and Valentine won starting 
jobs in Montreal's outfield out of Spring training 1977, with Cromartie 
shifting to left field. Joining them in the Expos' outfield would be 22-year-old 
center fielder Andre Dawson. Their youth, speed and talent soon made them 
the talk of the baseball world.[1] Cromartie hit his first major league 
home run against the New York Mets' Nino Espinosa on July 2.[5] Usually 
batting either second or fifth in the Expos' line-up, he spent most of 
the season with a batting average over .300, but cooled off to .282 with 
five home runs and fifty RBIs by the end of the season. Cromartie was considered 
something of a defensive liability his rookie season,[1] and worked on 
his defense during the off season. As a result, he led National League 
left fielders in many defensive categories in 1978. He, Dawson and Valentine 
each led their respective positions in outfield assists to give the Expos 
the unquestionable top defensive outfield in the major leagues. With his 
bat, he got off to a slow start in 1978. He ended April with just a .193 
batting average and two RBIs. From there, he batted .307 over the rest 
of the season to finish just below .300 (.297, which was tops on the team). 
His first major league grand slam was a walk off against the Atlanta Braves 
on July 19.[6] After going 0-for-five in the 1979 season opener with the 
Pittsburgh Pirates,[7] Cromartie embarked upon a nineteen-game hitting 
streak, the longest of his career.[8] His hot start helped propel the Expos 
into their first real pennant race in franchise history. The Expos battled 
the Pirates and Philadelphia Phillies for first place in the National League 
East throughout the season, with their lead in the division peaking at 
6.5 games on July 2. They would eventually win a franchise best 95 games, 
however, finished second to the World Series winning Pirates by two games. 
For his part, Cromartie batted .275 with eight home runs and a career best 
84 runs scored. Cromartie had played some first base in the minor leagues, 
and was shifted there for the 1980 season[9] after the Expos acquired outfielder 
Ron LeFlore from the Detroit Tigers at the Winter meetings.[10] He had 
difficulty fielding his new position, committing a league leading fourteen 
errors at first, however, had one of his best seasons with his bat. He 
batted .288, and putting up career highs in home runs (14) and RBIs (70). 
Perhaps the most memorable moment of Cromartie's 1980 season was a Fourth 
of July doubleheader with the New York Mets. He committed two of five errors 
by the Expos in the sloppily played first game loss (the Mets also committed 
three).[11] After committing a third error in the second game, he also 
hit a two run home run that carried the Expos to a 6-5 victory.[12] The 
Expos again found themselves in a pennant race in 1980 despite key injuries 
to LeFlore, Valentine, Larry Parrish and pitcher Bill Lee, among others 
(Cromartie was the only player on the team who managed to play a full 162 
game schedule). Their season came down to a season ending three game set 
with the Philadelphia Phillies at Olympic Stadium; the Phillies won two 
out of three to win the division, and head to the post-season (Cromartie 
went hitless in eleven at bats).[13] The Expos were uninterested in re-signing 
LeFlore for the 1981 season, and allowed him to depart via free agency.[14] 
Rather than shifting Cromartie back to left field, he remained at first 
with rookie Tim Raines given the starting job in left. When Valentine was 
dealt to the New York Mets shortly before the players strike,[15] Cromartie 
shifted to right field with Willie Montañez assuming first base duties. 
With Montañez producing just a .177 batting average, he was dealt to the 
Pirates for fellow first baseman John Milner on August 20.[16] Cromartie 
was eventually shifted back to first base in September with Tim Wallach 
taking over in right field. As a result of the players strike, the owners 
decided to split the 1981 season into two halves, with the first-place 
teams from each half in each division meeting in a best-of-five divisional 
playoff series (the first time that Major League Baseball used a split-season 
format since 1892). Cromartie batted .328 with three home runs, eighteen 
RBIs and 24 runs scored in the second half to help the Expos win the NL 
East by half a game over the St. Louis Cardinals. After two consecutive 
near misses, Cromartie and most of his teammates were reaching the post 
season for the first time in their careers. Cromartie went two-for-four 
with an RBI double off Steve Carlton in the opening game of the 1981 National 
League Division Series to help bring his club to a 3-1 victory over the 
future Hall of Famer.[17] They defeated the Phillies in five games, but 
lost to the Los Angeles Dodgers in a five-game National League Championship 
Series. Cromartie was in the on-deck circle when the Dodgers recorded the 
final out of the 1981 National League Championship Series. Just as the 
1982 season was set to begin, the Expos acquired first baseman Al Oliver 
from the Texas Rangers for third baseman Larry Parrish and first baseman 
Dave Hostetler. With this acquisition, Cromartie was shifted to right field.[18] 
Cromartie was batting just .211 when he belted a walk-off home run off 
Cardinals closer Bruce Sutter on June 7.[19] From there, he brought his 
average up to a far more respectable .250 with decent power numbers (10 
home runs, 49 RBIs), however, the Expos still elected to acquire right 
fielder Joel Youngblood from the New York Mets for a player to be named 
later on August 4.[20] Youngblood cost Cromartie playing time when he first 
arrived in Montreal. The .192 batting average he put up in his first month 
with his new club, however, prompted manager Jim Fanning to give the job 
back to Cromartie full-time. For the season, Cromartie batted .254 with 
62 RBIs and matched his career high with fourteen home runs. Youngblood's 
tenure with the Expos lasted just one season, as did Fanning's. With the 
arrival of new manager Bill Virdon in 1983, Cromartie found himself in 
a battle with Terry Francona, who was coming back from a knee injury, for 
the right field job the following Spring.[21] Cromartie won the job, but 
still saw limited action in 1983. On July 15, Cromartie tipped a food table 
in the Expos clubhouse following a 9-3 loss to the Atlanta Braves. Virdon 
suspended him three games for his temper tantrum.[22] Back problems limited 
him to nine plate appearances in the Expos' final 26 games. Cromartie became 
a free agent at the end of the season. After receiving some interest from 
the San Francisco Giants, he instructed agent Cookie Lazarus to send out 
feelers in Japan. He ended up signing with the Tokyo Yomiuri Giants of 
Nippon Professional Baseball on December 28, 1983. At thirty years old, 
Cromartie became the first, and perhaps the most prominent, American player 
still in his prime to sign with a Japanese baseball team.[23] Upon his 
arrival in Japan, his manager, legendary Japanese slugger Sadaharu Oh, 
noticed a hitch in Cromartie's swing. He had Cromartie take batting practice 
with a book under his elbow to correct it.[24] The trick must have worked, 
as he had ten game-winning RBIs in his first season,[25] and belted over 
thirty home runs in each of his first three seasons. During Cromartie's 
second season in Japan, his second son, Cody Oh Cromartie, was born. His 
middle name is in honor of Sadaharu Oh.[26] The low point of Cromartie's 
career in Japan came in June 1987. The Central League suspended Cromartie 
for seven days and fined him $2143 for inciting a brawl with Masami Miyashita, 
a Chunichi Dragons pitcher who hit him in the back. The next time the Giants 
played in Nagoya, over two hundred security guards were employed to protect 
Cromartie from the angry fans.[24] A broken thumb also limited him to just 
49 games in 1988.[27] He appeared to be on his way to being Wally Pipped 
when his replacement, Ming-Tsu Lu, clubbed four home runs in his first 
five games. Lu was Taiwanese, and NPB has a "gaijin waku," or a limit of 
two foreign born players per team. Cromartie's former teammate with the 
Expos, pitcher Bill Gullickson, was also a member of the Giants.[28] Given 
the salaries of Cromartie and Gullickson, Lu ended up being the odd man 
out.[27] In 1989, Cromartie batted .378 with fifteen home runs and 78 RBIs 
to be named MVP of the Central League, and lead his team to the Japan Series 
championship. In the deciding game of the series with the Kintetsu Buffaloes, 
Cromartie doubled in the fourth inning to ignite a three run rally and 
homered in the seventh.[29] He originally intended to retire at the end 
of the season,[27] but his success prompted him to spend one more season 
with the Giants. Cromartie was invited to Spring training with the Kansas 
City Royals in 1991,[30] and earned a one-year deal at the league minimum 
to serve as a left-handed bat off the bench. In limited duty, Cromartie 
batted .313 with one home run and twenty RBIs. He retired during the season 
with twenty games still remaining on the schedule.[31] In seven seasons 
in Japan, Cromartie batted over.300 five times. All told, he compiled a 
.321 batting average with 171 home runs and 558 RBIs for the Yomiuri Giants. 
He led the Giants three times in RBIs, twice in home runs and twice in 
batting.[32] Cromartie is an accomplished drummer, and has jammed with 
Canadian rock band Rush.[23] A blueprint for the fictional "Warren Cromartie 
Secondary School" appears on the back cover of Rush's 1982 release, Signals, 
and Cromartie is thanked in the album's liner notes. While in Japan, Cromartie 
formed an R&B band called Climb with David Rosenthal of Rainbow. Rush lead 
singer Geddy Lee appears on the track "Who's Missin' Who" from their 1988 
release, Take A Chance.[33] Mitch Malloy and Foreigner's Lou Gramm also 
make guest appearances on the album. Right as his only season in Kansas 
City was set to start, his autobiography (co-written with Robert Whiting) 
detailing his playing days in Japan, Slugging It Out in Japan: An American 
Major-Leaguer in the Tokyo Outfield, hit bookstores. Cromartie began doing 
Florida Marlins pre-game shows for WQAM radio in 1997, and remained a broadcaster 
with the Marlins in one form or another through 2002. He served as the 
television color commentator for the Montreal Expos in the team's final 
year of existence (2004). He currently hosts a radio show on WAXY 790 AM 
in Miami, Florida. "Talking Hardball with The Cro" currently airs on Saturday 
during baseball season.[34] He has his own segment on the TSN 690 in Montreal, 
and regularly airs at 4:00 PM Eastern on weekdays with Mitch Melnick. In 
2005, Cromartie sued the makers of a film based on the manga/anime series 
Cromartie High School in Japanese court. The series does not feature Cromartie 
himself but does depict students who "smoke, fight with students from other 
schools and are depicted as ruffians" which he says defames his character 
as the school shares his name. The Miami native held his first baseball 
camp at Miami-Dade Community College's North Campus in 1994. He was the 
manager of the Japan Samurai Bears, an all-Japanese team in the independent 
U.S. Golden Baseball League during the league's only season (2005). Danny 
Gold and Matthew Asner of Mod 3 Productions filmed a documentary of the 
club entitled Season of the Samurai. It aired on the MLB Network in 2010.[35] 
He formed the Montreal Baseball Project in 2012 to launch a feasibility 
study into bringing Major League Baseball back to Montreal.[36] He, Andre 
Dawson and Cecil Fielder of the Detroit Tigers (whom Cromartie met while 
the two played in Japan) teamed up to form "Sports Dent" in 1993. The company 
produced baseball themed dental hygiene products, including a baseball 
bat shaped toothbrush, a toothbrush holder that plays Take Me Out to the 
Ballgame, a dental floss dispenser shaped like home plate and mock baseball 
cards to record one's "Runs brushed in."[37] In 2007, he made his professional 
wrestling debut at an event called "Hustle Aid" to benefit leukemia research. 
He and Ryoji Sai took on Tiger Jeet Singh and An Joenosuke in a tag team 
match at Tokyo's Saitama Arena.[38] As Singh is known for walking around 
with a sword in his mouth, Cromartie showed up with a baseball bat, and 
wearing a baseball uniform with the words "Samurai Man" across his chest 
and the number 49 from his playing days on the back. The match ended with 
