Waseda Bear (official) Waseda University (早稲田大学, Waseda Daigaku?), abbreviated 
as Sōdai (早大?), is a large, private university with a main campus located 
in Shinjuku, Tokyo, Japan. First established in 1882 as the Tōkyō Senmon 
Gakkō or Tōkyō College by Ōkuma Shigenobu, the school was formally renamed 
as Waseda University in 1902.[3] The university consists of 13 undergraduate 
schools and 23 graduate schools. Waseda is one of the select group of universities 
assigned additional funding under the Japanese Ministry of Education, Culture, 
Sports, Science and Technology's "Global 30" Project.[4] Waseda consistently 
ranks among the most academically selective and well-regarded universities 
in Japanese university rankings. In international rankings, published by 
Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) weighted towards academic peer review and published 
research output, Waseda ranked 212th in 2015/16. The university has many 
notable alumni in Japan, including seven Prime Ministers of Japan and many 
CEOs, including Tadashi Yanai, the CEO of UNIQLO, Takeo Fukui, the former 
President and CEO of Honda, Norio Sasaki, the former CEO of Toshiba, Lee 
Kun-hee, the Chairman of Samsung Group, Mikio Sasaki, the former Chairman 
of Mitsubishi, and Hiroshi Yamauchi, former President of Nintendo. The 
university was founded by samurai scholar and Meiji-era politician and 
former prime minister Ōkuma Shigenobu in 1882, and adopted the title university 
in 1902. It started as a college with three departments under the old Japanese 
system of higher education. In 1882, the university had the department 
of political science and economics, law, and physical science. Along with 
these departments, an English language course was established, where the 
students of all the departments could learn English.[5] Three years later, 
the department of physical science was closed because it had too few applicants.[6] 
The department of science and engineering was established in 1908.[7] The 
department of literature was established in 1890.[8] Although Waseda formally 
adopted the term university in its title in 1902[9] it was not until 1920 
that, in common with other Japanese schools and colleges, it received formal 
Government recognition as a university under the terms of the University 
Establishment Ordinance. [10] The department of education was established 
in 1903, and the department of commerce, in 1904.[11] Much of the campus 
was destroyed in the fire bombings of Tokyo during World War II, but the 
university was rebuilt and reopened by 1949. It has grown to become a comprehensive 
university with two senior high schools and school of art and architecture.[citation 
needed] In June 12, 1950, Sixty police raided Waseda University and seized 
copies of a Communist-inspired open letter to General MacArthur. The open 
letter to MacArthur was one read at a Communist-sponsored rally a week 
earlier. The letter demanded a peace treaty for Japan that would include 
Russia and Communist China, withdrawal of occupation forces, and the release 
of 8 Japanese sent to prison for assaulting 5 U.S soldiers at a Communist 
rally. A police official said most meetings at Waseda would be banned in 
the future because "political elements" might try to utilize them. Yuichi 
Eshima, Vice-Chairman of the Students Autonomy Society, said the police 
action "stupified" students and professors, and that "This is worse than 
the prewar peace preservation measures."[12] Waseda University started 
its life as Tōkyō Senmon Gakkō (東京専門学校?) on October 21, 1882. Before the 
name 'Waseda' was selected, it was known variously as Waseda Gakkō (早稲田学校?) 
or Totsuka Gakkō (戸塚学校?) after the location of the founder's villa in Waseda 
Village and the school's location in Totsuka Village respectively. It was 
renamed Waseda University (早稲田大学, Waseda-daigaku?) on September 2, 1902 
upon acquiring university status. Ōkuma had long desired to create an academic 
cap so distinctive that someone wearing the cap would immediately be identified 
as a Waseda student.[13]The chief tailor of Takashimaya, Yashichiro, was 
called upon to design a cap in three days. Each square cap was stamped 
on the inside with the student's name, his department, the school seal 
and the legend, "This certifies that the owner is a student of Waseda". 
Thus, the cap served as a form of identification, and effectively a status 
symbol. The cap, with its gold-braided badge, is registered as a trademark. 
On October 21, 2007, Waseda University celebrated its 125th anniversary. 
Ōkuma often talked about the "125 years of life" theory: "The lifespan 
of a human being can be as long as 125 years. He will be able to live out 
his natural lifespan as long as he takes proper care of his health", because 
"physiologists say that every animal has the ability to live five times 
as long as its growth period. Since a man is said to require about 25 years 
to become fully mature, it follows that he can live up to 125 years of 
age." This theory propounded by Ōkuma was very popular and often referred 
to in the media of the time. In commemorative events relating to Waseda 
University and Ōkuma, the number 125 is accorded special significance, 
as it marks an important epoch. The tower of Ōkuma Auditorium, completed 
on the university's 45th anniversary, is 125 shaku, or about 38 m high. 
In 1963, there were also events to mark the 125th anniversary of Ōkuma 
Shigenobu's birth. Ōkuma, who twice served as prime minister of Japan, 
organized his second cabinet when he was 77 and died when he was 83. He 
said, "I wish I had understood this '125 years of life' theory 30 years 
earlier". He did, however, lead a regular life, and lived fairly long compared 
to other Japanese at the time. Waseda University's main campus is located 
in the Nishi-Waseda district of Shinjuku. The nearest station is Waseda, 
although Waseda is generally associated with Takadanobaba on the Yamanote 
Line. Apart from the main campus in Shinjuku, there are other campuses 
around the country: Undergraduate Schools (Entrance Capacity 8880): Graduate 
Schools: Soon after Ōkuma's death on January 10, 1922, the planning of 
memorials commenced. The first decision was to construct a large auditorium, 
something Ōkuma had always dreamed of.[citation needed] The three-story 
main auditorium seats 1,435, while the secondary auditorium, located underground, 
can accommodate 382 people. A seven-story high clock tower stands to the 
left of the auditorium. The height of the tower, at 125 shaku, or about 
38 m, represents the theory of "life of 125 years" advocated by Ōkuma. 
The bells at the top of the tower were transported through the Panama Canal 
from the MacLean Company in Baltimore, Maryland. It was the first time 
that four bells, large and small, had been used in Japan. Oval-shaped transom 
windows on the roof represent the sun, moon, and nine (traditional) planets 
of our solar system, and symbolize the "harmony of the universe" both inside 
and outside the auditorium.[citation needed] The auditorium opened on October 
20, 1927, about five years behind schedule, after the 1923 Great Kantō 
earthquake. A Memorial Hall, constructed in 1957, was used as the fencing 
venue for the 1964 Summer Olympics.[14] In April 1999, the auditorium along 
with the old library building were officially designated the first and 
second historical buildings under the newly passed Tokyo Metropolitan Landscape 
Regulations, which aim to preserve buildings representative of Tokyo's 
history and culture. The auditorium was designated as one of the Important 
Cultural Properties of Japan by the Agency for Cultural Affairs in 2007.[15] 
Ōkuma Garden is located near Ōkuma Auditorium. It is a half-Japanese, half-Western 
garden of Edo period feudal lord Matsudaira Sanuki's former mansion, redesigned 
by Shigenobu Ōkuma. After his death, the garden was donated to Waseda University. 
Now it is a recreation place for students. The Waseda University Library, 
designed by Tachu Naitō, Kenji Imai and Kin'ichi Kiriyama, was completed 
in 1925. This five-story building, with a total area of 1,195 tsubo (坪?) 
(about 3,944 square meters), was used initially as the University Library. 
The reading room was housed in a separate two-story building, with a seating 
capacity of 500. One of the prominent libraries established at the end 
of the Taishō period, it has been a symbol of Waseda University to this 
day, along with the Okuma Auditorium and the Theatre Museum. The Old Library 
and the administration building were expanded in 1934 and 1955 respectively. 
The Old Library stopped serving as a main library, after the New Central 
Library, located where the Abe Stadium used to be, was completed in 1990. 
It now houses Takata Sanae Memorial Research Library, the University Archives, 
and Aizu Yaichi Museum. Takata Sanae Memorial Research Library opened in 
1994. It is named after former university president Takata Sanae. Historical 
and cultural materials on Waseda University are exhibited in the University 
Archives, and the materials related with Ōkuma Shigenobu are exhibited 
in the Ōkuma Memorial Room at the Archives. Aizu Yaichi Memorial Museum 
opened in 1998. In the front hall, visitors are greeted by the masterpiece 
"Meian", which dates back to 1927. It is painted on the world's largest 
hand-made washi (Japanese paper), which is 4.45 meters in diameter and 
weighs about 12 kilograms. It was manufactured by Iwano Heisaburō, the 
founder of the Echizen paper works in Imadachi-cho, Fukui prefecture. The 
masterpiece was painted free of charge by Yokoyama Taikan and Shimomura 
Kanzan, two artists who represented the modern Japanese style of painting. 
President Takata Sanae asked them to paint a picture for the Library. The 
library possesses a unique collection which survived the Bombing of Tokyo 
in World War II unlike many of its counterparts. The collection is an important 
resource for the study of pre-war Japanese history and literature. Other 
museums and libraries on Waseda campuses include: The Waseda University 
Cheerleading Club is the cheerleading club of Waseda University. Waseda's 
baseball team is known for their long history of success in Tokyo Big6 
Baseball League. As of the end of the 2012 season, Waseda had won 43 championships 
along with the highest winning percentage. They are also known for their 
rivalry with Keiō University, highlighted by the Sōkeisen series. The series 
is held twice a year in the spring and autumn at Meiji-Jingu Stadium, considered 
as one of the most important matches of the year for students from both 
schools. Waseda University football team won the Emperor's Cup, in 1964 
and 1967. Waseda University Rugby Football Club has reached the final of 
the All-Japan University Rugby Championship 31 times, and winning fifteen 
times, most recently in 2008. Its two traditional rivals are Keio University 
and Meiji University. The Waseda University karate club is one of the oldest 
in Japan, formed in 1931 under the direction of Gichin Funakoshi.[16][17] 
Graduates of the karate club include Shigeru Egami, leader of the Shotokai 
school, Kazumi Tabata, founder of the North American Karate-do Federation 
and Tsutomu Ohshima, founder of Shotokan Karate of America. In 2016 the 
first university bandy team in Japan was founded.[18] With no field of 
regular size, they play rink bandy. Professors who are also Waseda alumni 
are listed in italics. LAW BUSINESS & MANAGEMENT Engineering ARCHITECTURE 
Waseda University is considered one of the most prestigious universities 
in Japan, consistently ranking amongst the top universities in Japanese 
university rankings. The university seeks to promote student and faculty 
exchange as well as collaborative research through memorandums of agreement 
signed with 432 partnership institutions in 79 countries. The university 
has been ranked 5th in 2008–2009 and 6th in 2010–2011 in Toyo Keizai's 
Truly Strong Universities (本当に強い大学?) ranking.[41] In another ranking, Japanese 
prep school Kawaijuku ranked Waseda as the 13th best university in Japan.[23] 
According to the Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2011–2012, 
Waseda ranked 351–400 worldwide among universities.[citation needed] In 
addition, as of September 2012, according to the QS World university rankings 
of the general standards in the engineering and technology field, Waseda 
University was ranked 116th in the world, 7th nationally, and 198th in 
the general ranking.[42] Waseda Business School and Waseda Graduate School 
of Economics obtained the highest rank – five PALMS – in a Universal Business 
Ranking in 2013.[43] In 2014, The Center for World University Rankings 
ranked Waseda University 40th (world).[44] Waseda University was also ranked 
20th in the world in the Times Higher Education Alma Mater Index: Global 
Executives 2013 top 100.[45] Generally speaking, national universities 
in Japan have better research standards; however, Waseda is one of the 
few private universities which compete with top national universities. 
According to Weekly Diamond, Waseda has the 12th highest research standard 
in Japan in terms of research fundings per researchers in COE Program, 
and it is one of only two private universities within the top 15.[46] On 
February 16, 2004, Nikkei Shimbun ran a survey about research standards 
in engineering studies based on Thomson Reuters, Grants in Aid for Scientific 
Research and questionnaires to heads of 93 leading Japanese Research Centers. 
Waseda ranked 5th overall, 7th in research planning, and 1st in business-academia 
collaboration.[47] Waseda was the only private university ranked in the 
top 5. Asahi Shimbun summarized the amount of academic papers in Japanese 
major legal journals by university, and Waseda was ranked 3rd during 2005–2009.[33] 
According to the Asia Top MBA Business Schools Ranking by Asiaweek, Waseda 
Business School is ranked 2nd in Japan.[48] Eduniversal also ranked Japanese 
business schools and Waseda is 2nd in Japan (93rd in the world).[49] In 
this ranking, Waseda is one of only 3 Japanese business schools categorized 
in "Universal Business schools with major international influence". Waseda 
Law School is considered as one of the top Japanese law schools, as Waseda's 
successful candidates for bar examination was 5th in 2009 and 2010 in Japan.[50] 
According to the Weekly Diamond on February 18, 2006, Waseda got the highest 
score from the directors of human resource departments in Greater Tokyo 
in its Useful University Rankings (役に立つ大学ランキング?).[51] Waseda was ranked 
1st in Social Science and 2nd in Natural Science and Engineering among 
all Japanese universities.[52] According to the Weekly Economist's 2010 
rankings and the PRESIDENT's article on October 16, 2006, graduates from 
Waseda have the 11th best employment rate in 400 major companies, and the 
alumni average salary is the 7th best in Japan.[53][54] Mines ParisTech : 
Professional Ranking World Universities ranked Waseda University as 4th 
in the world in 2010 (8th in 2011) in terms of the number of alumni listed 
among CEOs in the 500 largest worldwide companies.[55][32] The university 
is also ranked 2nd in Japan for the number of alumni holding the position 
of executive in the listed companies of Japan.[56] The number of lawyers 
who graduated Waseda has been ranked 3rd in Japan since 1949.[57] Furthermore, 
Waseda alumni have been the 2nd largest group in the Japanese Parliament.[58][59] 
Waseda is a popular university in Japan. The number of applicants per place 
was 20.5 (115515/5630) in the 2011 undergraduate admissions.[60] This number 
of applicants was 2nd largest in Japan.[61] its entrance difficulty is 
usually considered as top with Keio among 730 private universities.[62][63][64] 
Nikkei BP has been publishing a ranking system called "Brand rankings of 
Japanese universities" every year, composed by the various indications 
related to the power of brand, and Waseda was top in 2010 and 3rd in 2009 
in Greater Tokyo Area.[25] Waseda University has had numerous benefactors, 
including: Super Free was a registered Waseda University school club organized 
by Shinichirō Wada, a student at Waseda University who entered in 1994. 
The club organized parties in order to rape unsuspecting women. The appeal 
of these parties was the chance to associate with Waseda University students. 
