Coordinates: 40°50′30″N 73°56′15″W﻿ / ﻿40.84167°N 73.93750°W﻿ / 40.84167; 
-73.93750 Washington Heights is a neighborhood in the northern portion 
of the New York City borough of Manhattan. The area, with over 150,000 
inhabitants as of 2010[update], is named for Fort Washington, a fortification 
constructed at the highest point on Manhattan island by Continental Army 
troops during the American Revolutionary War, to defend the area from the 
British forces. Washington Heights is bordered by Harlem to the south, 
along 155th Street, Inwood to the north along Hillside Avenue, the Hudson 
River to the west, and the Harlem River and Coogan's Bluff to the east. 
In the 18th century, only the southern portion of the island was settled 
by Europeans, leaving the rest of Manhattan largely untouched. Among the 
many unspoiled tracts of land was the highest spot on the island, which 
provided unsurpassed views of what would become the New York metropolitan 
area.[3] When the Revolutionary War came to New York, the British had the 
upper hand. General George Washington and troops from his Continental Army 
camped on the high ground, calling it Fort Washington, to monitor the advancing 
Redcoats. The Continental Army retreated from its location after their 
defeat on November 16, 1776, in the Battle of Fort Washington.[4] The British 
took the position and renamed it Fort Knyphausen in honor of Wilhelm von 
Knyphausen, the leader of the Hessians, who had taken a major part in the 
British victory.[5][6] Their location was in the spot now called Bennett 
Park.[7] Fort Washington had been established as an offensive position 
to prevent British vessels from sailing north on the Hudson River. Fort 
Lee, across the river, was its twin, built to assist in the defense of 
the Hudson Valley.[3] The progress of the battle is marked by a series 
of bronze plaques along Broadway. Not far from the fort was the Blue Bell 
Tavern, located on an intersection of Kingsbridge Road, where Broadway 
and West 181st Street intersect today, on the southeastern corner of modern-day 
Hudson Heights.[8] On July 9, 1776, when New York's Provincial Congress 
assented to the Declaration of Independence, "A rowdy crowd of soldiers 
and civilians ('no decent people' were present, one witness said later) 
... marched down Broadway to Bowling Green, where they toppled the statue 
of George III erected in 1770. The head was put on a spike at the Blue 
Bell Tavern ... "[8] The tavern was later used by Washington and his staff 
when the British evacuated New York, standing in front of it as they watched 
the American troops march south to retake New York.[9] By 1856 the first 
recorded home had been built on the site of Fort Washington. The Moorewood 
residence was there until the 1880s. The property was purchased by Richard 
Carman and sold to James Gordon Bennett Sr. for a summer estate in 1871. 
Bennett's descendants later gave the land to the city to build a park honoring 
the Revolutionary War encampment. Bennett Park is a portion of that land. 
Lucius Chittenden, a New Orleans merchant, built a home on land he bought 
in 1846 west of what is now Cabrini Boulevard and West 187th Street.[10] 
It was known as the Chittenden estate by 1864.[9] C. P. Bucking named his 
home Pinehurst on land near the Hudson, a title that survives as Pinehurst 
Avenue.[10] The series of ridges overlooking the Hudson were sites of villas 
in the 19th century, including the extensive property of John James Audubon. 
At the turn of the 20th century the woods started being chopped down to 
make way for homes. The cliffs that are now Fort Tryon Park held the mansion 
of Cornelius Kingsley Garrison Billings, a retired president of the Chicago 
Coke and Gas Company. He purchased 25 acres (100,000 m2) and constructed 
Tryon Hall, a Louis XIV-style home designed by Gus Lowell. It had a galleried 
entranceway from the Henry Hudson Parkway that was 50 feet (15 m) high 
and made of Maine granite.[11][12] In 1917, Billings sold the land to John 
D. Rockefeller Jr. for $35,000 per acre. Tryon Hall was destroyed by fire 
in 1925. The estate was the basis for the book "The Dragon Murder Case" 
by S. S. Van Dine,[13] in which detective Philo Vance had to solve a murder 
on the grounds of the estate, where a dragon was supposed to have lived.[9] 
In the early 1900s, Irish immigrants moved to Washington Heights. European 
Jews went to Washington Heights to escape Nazism during the 1930s and the 
1940s.[14] Greeks started moving to Washington Heights in the 1920s, and 
the community was referred to as the "Astoria of Manhattan" by the 1950s 
and 1960s.[15] By the 1980s–1990s, the neighborhood became mostly Dominican, 
constituting at the time the nation's largest Dominican community.[16] 
During World War I, immigrants from Hungary and Poland moved in next to 
the Irish.[17] Then, as Nazism grew in Germany, Jews fled their homeland. 
By the late 1930s, more than 20,000 refugees from Germany had settled in 
Washington Heights.[18] The beginning of this section of Washington Heights 
as a neighborhood-within-a-neighborhood seems to have started around this 
time, in the years before World War II. One scholar refers to the area 
in 1940 as "Fort Tryon" and "the Fort Tryon area." In 1989, Steven M. Lowenstein 
wrote, "The greatest social distance was to be found between the area in 
the northwest, just south of Fort Tryon Park, which was, and remains, the 
most prestigious section ... This difference was already remarked in 1940, 
continued unabated in 1970 and was still noticeable even in 1980..."[19] 
Lowenstein considered Fort Tryon to be the area west of Broadway, east 
of the Hudson, north of West 181st Street, and south of Dyckman Street, 
which includes Fort Tryon Park. He writes, "Within the core area of Washington 
Heights (between 155th Street and Dyckman Street) there was a considerable 
internal difference as well. The further north and west one went, the more 
prestigious the neighborhood..."[19] In the years after World War II, the 
neighborhood was referred to as Frankfurt-on-the-Hudson due to the dense 
population of German and Austrian Jews who had settled there.[20] A disproportionately 
large number of Germans who settled there had come from Frankfurt-am-Main, 
possibly giving rise to new name.[19] No other neighborhood in the city 
was home to so many German Jews, who had created their own central German 
world in the 1930s.[21] In 1934 members of the German-Jewish Club of New 
York started Aufbau, a newsletter for its members that grew into a newspaper. 
Its offices were nearby on Broadway.[22] The newspaper became known as 
a "prominent intellectual voice and a main forum for Germanic Jewry in 
the United States," according to the German Embassy in Washington, D.C. 
"It featured the work of great prominent writers and intellectuals such 
as Thomas Mann, Albert Einstein, Stefan Zweig, and Hannah Arendt. It was 
one of the only newspapers to report on the atrocities of the Holocaust 
during World War II."[23] In 1941, it published the Aufbau Almanac, a guide 
to living in the United States that explained the American political system, 
education, insurance law, the post office and sports.[24] After the war, 
Aufbau helped families that had been scattered by European battles to reconnect 
by listing survivors' names.[25] Aufbau's offices eventually moved to the 
Upper West Side. The paper nearly went bankrupt in 2006, but was purchased 
by Jewish Media AG, and exists today as a monthly news magazine. Its editorial 
offices are now in Berlin, but it keeps a correspondent in New York City.[26] 
When the children of the Jewish immigrants to the Hudson Heights area grew 
up, they tended to leave the neighborhood, and sometimes, the city itself. 
By 1960 German Jews accounted for only 16% of the population in Frankfurt-on-the-Hudson.[17] 
The neighborhood became less overtly Jewish into the 1970s as Soviet immigrants 
moved there. After the Soviet immigration, families from the Caribbean, 
especially Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic, made it their home. 
So many Dominicans live in Washington Heights that candidates for the presidency 
of the Dominican Republic campaign in parades in the neighborhood.[27] 
African-Americans began to move there in the 1980s, followed shortly by 
other groups. "Frankfurt-on-the-Hudson" no longer described the neighborhood. 
By 2011, Washington Heights had among the lowest reported crime rates within 
neighborhoods in Manhattan,[28] though matters were once very different. 
In the 1980s, the Heights were severely affected by the crack cocaine epidemic, 
as was the rest of New York City. This was due, in part, to the neighborhood 
crack gang, known as the Wild Cowboys or the Red Top Gang, who were associated 
with Santiago Luis Polanco Rodríguez. The Wild Cowboys were responsible 
for the higher number of crimes, especially murders, during the late 1980s 
and early 1990s. Robert Jackall wrote a book, Wild Cowboys: Urban Marauders 
and the Forces of Order,[29] describing the events that took place during 
that period of lawlessness. Homelessness was rampant. Washington Heights 
had become the largest drug distribution center in the Northeastern United 
States during that time.[30] A housing project[which?] in the neighborhood 
was nicknamed “Crack City,”[31] an epithet commonly bestowed upon rough 
neighborhoods at the time. On October 18, 1988, 24-year-old NYPD Police 
Officer Michael J. Buczek was murdered by Dominican drug dealers in Washington 
Heights.[32] The killers fled to the Dominican Republic, where one – Daniel 
Mirambeaux, the alleged shooter – died in police custody in June 1989 after 
plunging to his death under mysterious circumstances, and a second was 
apprehended by U.S. Marshals in 2000. The third suspect was apprehended 
in the Dominican Republic in May 2002, after which Pablo Almonte, 51, and 
Jose Fernandez, 52, received maximum 25-years-to-life prison sentences 
for their roles in the murder of Officer Buczek. In the ensuing years, 
the Buczek family founded the Police Officer Michael J. Buczek Foundation. 
There is a street, an elementary school, and a little league baseball field 
named in honor of Officer Buczek. The Police Officer Michael J. Buczek 
Little League, the nation's only program operated by police officers, hosts 
30 teams with over 350 boys and girls, who are coached by officers from 
the NYPD and community members.[33] Crime fell in the subsequent years. 
Police presence increased, building landlords allowed police to patrol 
in apartment buildings, which led to the arrests of thousands of drug dealers 
a year in Washington Heights. The arrest of police officers involved in 
drug dealing changed the neighborhood dramatically.[34] People were also 
being stopped for quality of life crimes. A new police precinct was also 
added in the neighborhood.[30] Today, its crime rate, along with that of 
neighboring Harlem, is much lower.[35] Even though crime complaints were 
down 5.9 in 2007 over 2001 (and down 65.5% from 1993), there were five 
murders in lower Washington Heights (i.e., below W. 178th Street) in 2007.[35] 
In the upper portion of Washington Heights, where the 34th Precinct includes 
Fort George, Hudson Heights and as well as the separate neighborhood of 
Inwood, there was only one murder in 2007; likewise, above W. 179th Street, 
crime complaints were down 21.1% in 2007 over 2001 (and down 83.2% from 
1993).[36] That puts lower Washington Heights on par with Harlem, where 
the 30th Precinct also recorded five murders in 2007.[37] By comparison, 
the 13th Precinct (Flatiron District, Stuyvesant Town and Union Square) 
recorded three murders in 2007[38] and the 20th Precinct (the Upper West 
Side) recorded none.[39] By the 2000s, after years when gangsters ruled 
a thriving illegal drug trade, urban renewal began. Many Dominicans moved 
to Morris Heights, University Heights, and other West Bronx neighborhoods, 
as well as Los Angeles, California.[14] While gentrification is often blamed 
for rapid changes in the neighborhood, the changes in population also reflect 
the departure of the dominant nationality. Even though Dominicans still 
make up 73% of the neighborhood, their moves to the Bronx have made room 
for other Hispanic groups, such as Ecuadorians, according to The Latino 
Data Project of the City University of New York.[40] The proportion of 
whites in Washington Heights declined from 18% in 1990 to 14% in 2005.[41] 
In 2011, Washington Heights was the fourth-safest neighborhood in Manhattan, 
according to one analysis of police records. Its "Crime and Safety Report," 
which ranks every neighborhood in the five boroughs, found that the drop 
in crime in Upper Manhattan led the neighborhood nearly to the top; Inwood 
ranked third, while Greenwich Village ranked 68th.[42] The New York Post 
listed one part of the neighborhood – the block of Frederick Douglass Boulevard 
between West 155th Street and the Harlem River Drive – as one of "the most 
dangerous blocks in the city" because police crime statistics for 2015 
showed that 18 robberies had been reported there, more than for any other 
city block.[43] Washington Heights is on the high ridge in Upper Manhattan 
that rises steeply north of the narrow valley that carries 133rd Street 
to the former ferry landing on the Hudson River that served the village 
of Manhattanville. Though the neighborhood was once considered to run as 
far south as 133rd Street, modern usage defines the neighborhood as running 
north from Hamilton Heights at 155th Street to Inwood, topping out at just 
below Hillside Avenue or Dyckman Street, depending on the source.[44] The 
wooded slopes of Washington Heights seen from a sandy cove on the Hudson 
as they were about 1845 are illustrated in a canvas by John James Audubon's 
son, Victor Clifford Audubon, conserved by the Museum of the City of New 
York.[45] Fifteen blocks from the northern end of Washington Heights, in 
its Hudson Heights neighborhood near Pinehurst Avenue and West 183rd Street 
in Bennett Park, is a plaque marking Manhattan's highest natural elevation, 
265 feet (81 m) above sea level, at what was the location of Fort Washington, 
the Revolutionary War camp of General George Washington and his troops, 
from whom Washington Heights takes its name.[46] Hudson Heights is generally 
considered to extend as far east as Broadway,[47][48] although others shrink 
it to the blocks between Fort Washington Avenue and the Hudson River.[citation 
needed] The name seems to have stuck starting in the 1990s, when neighborhood 
real estate brokers and activists started using it.[48] Neighborhood activists 
formed a group in late 1992 to help promote the neighborhood[48] and after 
considering several names, settled on the one that became part of their 
organization's name: Hudson Heights Owners' Coalition. According to one 
of the group's founders, real estate brokers didn't start using the name 
until after the group was formed.[49] Elizabeth Ritter, the president of 
the owners' group, said that they "didn’t set out to change the name of 
the neighborhood, but [they] were careful in how [they] selected the name 
of the organization."[50] "Hudson Heights" actually began to be used as 
a name for a section of the neighborhood a year later.[49] The new name 
replaced the outdated reference to German heritage, which some have criticized, 
even though the German-speaking population is negligible at best.[51] Although 
many Russian speakers still live there, Spanish-speakers vastly outnumber 
the Russophones, and English remains the lingua franca. Hudson Heights' 
name has been adopted by such varied entities in the area as arts organizations 
and businesses. Newspapers from The Wall Street Journal,[52] the New York 
Times[53] to The Village Voice[54] use the name in reference to the neighborhood, 
as did The New York Sun,[55] and by Gourmet magazine.[56] Money magazine 
in its November 2007 article naming Hudson Heights the best neighborhood 
to retire to in New York City.[57] Hudson Heights is not the only Washington 
Heights neighborhood with a distinct name. Historically, Fort George runs 
from Broadway east to the Harlem River, and from West 181st Street north 
to Dyckman Street. The largest institution in Fort George is Yeshiva University, 
whose main campus sits east of Amsterdam Avenue in Highbridge Park. A branch 
of the Young Men's & Women's Hebrew Association is in the neighborhood, 
and George Washington High School sits on the site of the original Fort 
George. Fort George Presbyterian Church is on St. Nicholas Avenue. One 
of Manhattan's rare semi-private streets is also there. Washington Terrace 
runs south of West 186th Street for a half-block between Audubon and Amsterdam 
Avenues. The single-family homes there were built for middle-class families 
but some have been unoccupied for years. The M3, M101 bus routes serve 
the area.[58] Among the Heights' now-vanished riverfront estates was "Minnie's 
Land", the home of ornithological artist John James Audubon, who is buried 
in Trinity Church Cemetery churchyard of the neighborhood's Church of the 
Intercession (1915), a masterpiece by architect Bertram Goodhue. Also buried 
there is poet Clement Clarke Moore, who wrote "'Twas the Night Before Christmas".[68] 
Columbia University Medical Center and Columbia University College of Physicians 
and Surgeons, the medical campus and school, respectively, of Columbia 
University, lie in the area of 168th Street and Broadway, occupying the 
former site of Hilltop Park, the home of the New York Highlanders – now 
known as the New York Yankees – from 1903 to 1912. Across the street is 
the New Balance Track and Field Center, an indoor track and home to the 
National Track & Field Hall of Fame.[69] The best known cultural site and 
tourist attraction in Washington Heights is The Cloisters in Fort Tryon 
Park at the northern end of the neighborhood, with spectacular views across 
the Hudson to the New Jersey Palisades. This branch of the Metropolitan 
Museum of Art is devoted to Medieval art and culture, and is located in 
a medieval-style building, portions of which were purchased in Europe by 
John D. Rockefeller Jr. in 1925, brought to the United States, and reassembled, 
opening to the public in 1938.[70] Audubon Terrace, a cluster of five distinguished 
Beaux Arts institutional buildings, is home to another major, though little-visited 
museum, The Hispanic Society of America.[71] The Society has the largest 
collection of works by El Greco and Goya outside the Museo del Prado, including 
one of Goya's famous paintings of Cayetana, Duchess of Alba. In September 
2007, it commenced a three-year collaboration with the Dia Art Foundation. 
The campus on Broadway at West 156th Street also houses The American Academy 
of Arts and Letters, which holds twice yearly, month-long public exhibitions, 
and Boricua College. Manhattan's oldest remaining house, the Morris–Jumel 
Mansion, is located in the landmarked Jumel Terrace Historic District, 
between West 160th and West 162nd Street, just east of St. Nicholas Avenue. 
An AAM-accredited historic house museum, the Mansion interprets the colonial 
era, the period when General George Washington occupied it during the American 
Revolutionary War, and the early 19th century in New York.[72] The Paul 
Robeson Home, located at 555 Edgecombe Avenue on the corner of Edgecombe 
Avenue and 160th Street, is a National Historic Landmark building. The 
building is known for its famous African American residents including actor 
Paul Robeson, musician Count Basie, and boxer Joe Louis.[73] Other notable 
Washington Heights residents include Althea Gibson the first African American 
Wimbledon Champion, Frankie Lymon of "Why Do Fools Fall in Love?" fame, 
Leslie Uggams who was a regular on the Sing Along with Mitch Show. Other 
musicians who resided in the area for significant periods of time were 
jazz drummers Tony Williams and Alphonse Muzon and Grammy award winning 
Guitarist Marlon Graves. On February 21, 1965, Malcolm X was assassinated 
during a speech at the Audubon Ballroom, on Broadway at West 165th Street. 
The interior of the building was demolished, but the Broadway facade remains, 
incorporated into one of Columbia's Audubon Center buildings. It is now 
the home of the Malcolm X and Dr. Betty Shabazz Memorial and Educational 
Center.[74] Several shops, restaurants and a bookstore occupy the first 
floor. At the Hudson's shore, in Fort Washington Park[75] stands the Little 
Red Lighthouse, a small lighthouse located at the tip of Jeffrey's Hook 
at the base of the eastern pier of the George Washington Bridge that was 
made famous by a 1942 children's book.[76] It is the site of a namesake 
festival in the late summer. A 5.85-mile (9.41 km) recreational swim finishes 
there in early autumn.[77] It's also a popular place to watch for peregrine 
falcons.[78] Washington Heights is connected to Fort Lee, New Jersey across 
the Hudson River via the Othmar Ammann-designed George Washington Bridge, 
the world's busiest motor vehicle bridge.[1][2] The Pier Luigi Nervi-designed 
George Washington Bridge Bus Terminal is located at the Manhattan end of 
the bridge, at West 179th Street and Fort Washington Avenue. Constructed 
in 1963, the terminal has huge ventilation ducts that look like concrete 
butterflies from a distance.[79] Nervi's bust sits in the terminal's lobby. 
The Trans-Manhattan Expressway, a portion of Interstate 95, proceeds for 
0.8 miles (1.3 km) from the George Washington Bridge in a trench between 
178th and 179th Streets.[80] To the east, the highway leads to the Alexander 
Hamilton Bridge, completed in 1963 across the Harlem River to connect the 
GWB to the Bronx and the Cross Bronx Expressway.[81] The Washington Bridge 
crosses the Harlem River just north of the Alexander Hamilton Bridge. High 
Bridge is the oldest bridge in New York City still in existence, crossing 
the river just south of the Alexander Hamilton Bridge at 175th Street in 
Manhattan. Completed in 1848, it originally carried the Croton Aqueduct 
as part of the New York City water system and later functioned as a pedestrian 
bridge that had been closed to the public since the 1970s; In the late 
1920s, several of the stone piers were replaced with a steel arch that 
spanned the river to allow ships to more easily navigate under the bridge.[82] 
In June 2015 the High Bridge reopened as a pedestrian and bicycle bridge.[83] 
Because of their abrupt, hilly topography, pedestrian navigation, particularly 
in Upper Manhattan and the West Bronx, is facilitated by many step streets.[84] 
The longest of these in Washington Heights, at approximately 130 stairs 
and with an elevation gain of approximately 65 feet,[85] connects Fort 
Washington Avenue and Overlook Terrace at 187th Street.[86] Traversal of 
the elevation change can also be used using the three massive elevators 
within the 181st Street subway station, with entrances on Overlook Terrace 
and Fort Washington Avenue.[87] A similar situation exists at 190th Street. 
When originally built, fare control for both of these stations was in the 
station house, outside the elevators, which meant that they could only 
be used by paying a subway fare, but both have had fare control moved down 
to the mezzanine level, making the elevators free for neighborhood residents 
to use, and providing easier pedestrian connection between Hudson Heights 
and the rest of Washington Heights.[88] Washington Heights is well served 
by the New York City Subway. On the IND Eighth Avenue Line, service is 
available at the 155th Street and 163rd Street – Amsterdam Avenue stations 
(A C trains), the 168th Street station (1 A C trains), and the 175th Street, 
181st Street, and 190th Street stations (A train). Along the IRT Broadway 
– Seventh Avenue Line, the 1 train stops at 157th Street, 168th Street, 
181st Street, and 191st Street. The 190th Street station contains the subway's 
only entrance in the Gothic style,[89] although when originally built, 
it was a plain brick building; the stone facade was added later to bring 
the building into harmony with the entrance to Fort Tryon Park just across 
Margaret Corbin Circle.[88] The station was listed on the National Register 
of Historic Places in 2005.[90] The 190th Street station, along with the 
191st Street station, has the distinction of being one of the deepest in 
the entire subway system by distance to ground level.[91] Therefore, the 
IND 181st Street and 190th Street stations provide elevator connections 
between Hudson Heights, on the top of the ridge, and the Broadway valley 
of Washington Heights below. The IRT 191st Street station also has elevators 
to street level. Entrance to the 175th Street station at 175th St. and 
Ft. Washington Avenue Entrance to the 181st Street IND station at 184th 
Street and Ft. Washington Avenue Other entrance to the 181st Street IND 
station on Overlook Terrace at 184th Street Entrance to 190th Street station 
on Bennett Avenue Other entrance to 190th Street station on Ft. Washington 
Avenue, adjacent to Fort Tryon Park Entrance to the 191st Street station 
at 191st Street and Broadway MTA Regional Bus Operations' M2, M3, M4, M5, 
M98, M100, M101, Bx3, Bx6, Bx7, Bx11, Bx13, Bx35, Bx36 routes serve the 
area[58] The Art Stroll is an annual festival of the arts that highlights 
local artists. Public places in Washington Heights, Inwood and Marble Hill 
host impromptu galleries, readings, performances and markets over several 
weeks each summer.[92] Bennett Park is the location of the highest natural 
point in Manhattan, as well as a commemoration on the west side of the 
park of the walls of Fort Washington, which are marked in the ground by 
stones with an inscription that reads: "Fort Washington Built And Defended 
By The American Army 1776." Land for the park was donated by James Gordon 
Bennett, Jr., the publisher of the New York Herald. His father, James Gordon 
Bennett, Sr., bought the land and was previously the Herald's publisher.[46] 
Bennett Park hosts an annual Harvest Festival in September and a children's 
Halloween Parade – with trick-or-treating afterwards – on Halloween. Many 
small shops are located on West 181st Street at the southern end of the 
neighborhood, and all along Broadway. In the middle of the neighborhood 
itself, there is a small shopping area at West 187th Street between Cabrini 
Boulevard and Fort Washington Avenue. News of Upper Manhattan is published 
weekly in The Manhattan Times, a bilingual newspaper. Its annual restaurant 
guide, highlights the area's burgeoning restaurant scene. Events are also 
listed in the Washington Heights & Inwood Online calendar.[93] Today the 
majority of the neighborhood's population is of Dominican birth or descent 
(the area is sometimes referred to as "Quisqueya Heights"), and Spanish 
is frequently heard spoken on the streets.[94] Washington Heights has been 
the most important base for Dominican accomplishment in political, non-profit, 
cultural, and athletic arenas in the United States since the 1960s. Most 
of the neighborhood businesses are locally owned.[44] Many Dominican immigrants 
come to network and live with family members. Bishop Gerard Walsh, former 
long-time pastor of St. Elizabeth's Roman Catholic Church, located in Washington 
Heights, said that many residents go to the neighborhood for "cheap housing," 
to obtain jobs "downtown," to receive a "good education," and "hopefully" 
to leave the neighborhood.[95] Before the crash of American Airlines Flight 
587 in 2001, according to an article in The Guardian, the flight had "something 
of a cult status in Washington Heights." A woman quoted in the newspaper 
said "Every Dominican in New York has either taken that flight or knows 
someone who has. It gets you there early. At home there are songs about 
it." After the crash occurred, makeshift memorials appeared in Washington 
Heights.[95] Historically the home of many German Jews, the neighborhood 
also has a sizable Orthodox Jewish population. In the decade to 2011, the 
Orthodox community in Washington Heights and neighboring Inwood grew by 
more than 140%, from about 9,500 to nearly 24,000, the largest growth of 
any neighborhood identified in the Jewish Community Study, an increase 
largely fueled by an influx of young Orthodox Jews.[96][97] Heralding the 
arts scene north of Central Park is the annual Uptown Arts Stroll, in which 
artists from Washington Heights, Inwood and Marble Hill are featured in 
public locations throughout upper Manhattan each summer for several weeks.[92] 
As of 2008, the Uptown Art Stroll is run by Northern Manhattan Arts Alliance. 
The Northern Manhattan Arts Alliance (NoMAA), led by Executive Director 
Sandra A. García Betancourt, was founded in 2007 to support artists and 
arts organizations in Washington Heights and Inwood. Their stated mission 
is to cultivate, support and promote the work of artists and arts organizations 
in Northern Manhattan. In 2008, NoMAA awarded $50,000 in grants to seven 
arts organizations and 33 artists in the Washington Heights/Inwood art 
community. NoMAA sponsors community arts events and publishes an email 
newsletter of all art events in Washington Heights and Inwood.[98] Five 
clubs in American professional sports played in the Washington Heights 
area: the New York Giants baseball club, the New York Mets, the New York 
Yankees, and the New York Giants and New York Jets football teams. The 
baseball Giants played at the Polo Grounds at West 155th Street and Eighth 
Avenue from 1911–1957, the Yankees played there from 1913–1922, and the 
New York Mets played their first two seasons (1962 and 1963) there as well 
as the football Giants (1925–1955) and New York Jets (1960–1963). The Mets 
and Jets both began play at the Polo Grounds while their future home, Shea 
Stadium in Queens, was under construction.[99] Before the Yankees played 
at the Polo Grounds, they played in Hilltop Park on Broadway between 165th 
and 168th from 1903–1912; at the time they were known as the New York Highlanders.[100] 
On May 15, 1912, after being heckled for several innings, the great Ty 
Cobb leaped the fence and attacked his tormentor. He was suspended indefinitely 
by league president Ban Johnson, but his suspension was eventually reduced 
to 10 days and $50.[101] One of the most amazing pitching performances 
of all time took place at Hilltop Park; on September 4, 1908, 20-year-old 
Walter Johnson shut out New York three times in a three-game series.[102] 
The park is now the Columbia University Medical Center, a major hospital 
complex, which opened on that location in 1928.[103] Washington Heights 
was the birthplace of Yankee star Alex Rodriguez. Slugger Manny Ramírez 
grew up in the neighborhood, moving there from the Dominican Republic when 
he was 13 years old and attending George Washington High School, where 
he was one of the nation's top prospects. Hall-of-Fame infielder Rod Carew, 
a perennial batting champion in the 1970s, also grew up in Washington Heights, 
having emigrated with his family from Panama at the age of fourteen. The 
New York Yankee's Lou Gehrig grew up on 173rd and Amsterdam. He attended 
the elementary school P.S. 132 at 185 Wadsworth Avenue between West 182nd 
and 183rd Streets. The Yankee captain lived in Washington Heights for most 
of his life.[104] The New Balance Track and Field Center, located in the 
Fort Washington Avenue Armory, maintains an Olympic-caliber track that 
is one of the fastest in the world.[105] Starting in January 2012, the 
Millrose Games have been held there, after nearly a century in Madison 
Square Garden.[106] Other activities meet at the Armory as well. High schools 
and colleges hold meets at the 2,300-seat auditorium at the Armory regularly, 
and it is open to the public for training, for a fee. Also at the Armory 
is the National Track and Field Hall of Fame, along with the Charles B. 
Rangel Technology & Learning Center for children and students in middle 
school and high school; the facility is operated by the Armory Foundation, 
which was created in 1993. The Armory is the starting point for an annual 
road race, the Coogan's Salsa, Blues, and Shamrocks 5K, which was founded 
by Peter M. Walsh and is run in March and sanctioned by the New York Road 
Runners.[107] Mountain bike races take place in Highbridge Park in the 
spring and summer. Sponsored by the New York City Mountain Bike Association,[108] 
the races are held on alternate Thursdays and are open to professional 
competitors and amateurs. Participating in these races is free, but the 
All-City Cross Country Classic requires a registration fee because prize 
money is awarded. Extreme swimmers take part in the Little Red Lighthouse 
Swim, a 5.85-mile (9.41 km) swim in the Hudson River from Clinton Cove 
(Pier 96) to Jeffrey’s Hook, the location of the Little Red Lighthouse.[109] 
The annual race, sponsored by the Manhattan Island Foundation, attracts 
more than 200 competitors. The course records for men and women were both 
set in 1998. Jeffrey Jotz, then a 28-year-old from Rahway, New Jersey, 
finished in 1 hour, 7 minutes, and 36 seconds, while then-31-year-old Julie 
Walsh-Arlis, of New York, finished in 1 hour, 12 minutes, and 45 seconds. 
Local politicians, sports enthusiasts, and community organizers have organized 
the "Uptown Games" for children at the Fort Washington Avenue Armory.[110] 
The event has an aim of "teaching kids at an early age what a pleasure 
it is to be physically active," according to one of the 2012 organizers, 
Cliff Sperber, of the New York Road Runners Association.[111] Christian 
institutions include: Jewish institutions include: University education 
includes Yeshiva University and Boricua College. The medical campus of 
Columbia University hosts the College of Physicians and Surgeons, the College 
of Dental Medicine, the Mailman School of Public Health, the School of 
Nursing, and the biomedical programs of the Graduate School of Arts and 
Sciences, which offer Masters and Doctorate degrees in several fields. 
These schools are among the departments that comprise the Columbia University 
Medical Center. Despite its name, CUNY in the Heights, a program of Hostos 
Community College of the City University of New York, is not in Washington 
Heights, but in the neighborhood to the north, Inwood.[121] The CUNY XPress 
Center, however, is in the Fort George neighborhood of Washington Heights. 
Its purpose is to assist immigrants and to help students enroll in one 
of the CUNY schools.[122] Private primary and secondary schools include 
the School of the Incarnation, the School of St. Elizabeth, Yeshiva Rabbi 
Samson Raphael Hirsch, and City College Academy of the Arts, a project 
funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. Success Academy Charter 
Schools also has a location in Hudson Heights, in the former Mother Cabrini 
High School building. Other private schools include the Herbert G. Birch 
School for Exceptional Children, Medical Center Nursery School and the 
Marsha Stern Talmudical Academy. Public primary and secondary schools are 
assigned to schools in the New York City Department of Education. High 
Schools include: George Washington High School The Equity Project is a 
charter school serving 480 students in grades 5-8 that Opened in September 
2009.[123] Zoned middle schools include: Grade 6 and 7 option schools include: 
Zoned elementary schools include: The New York Public Library operates 
the Washington Heights Branch at 1000 St. Nicholas Avenue at West 160th 
Street[125] and the Fort Washington Branch at 535 West 179th Street at 
Audubon Avenue.[126] The Manhattan Times is the bilingual community newspaper 
serving the Washington Heights and Inwood neighborhoods of Northern Manhattan. 
The newspaper is published every Wednesday and is distributed primarily 
through black street boxes. The Manhattan Times is also available for subscription. 
The sections of each edition reflect the interests of the community: Uptown 
Dining, Real Estate, Health & Fitness, Green Times, and more. The Manhattan 
Times has created numerous partnerships over the years with local institutions 
and organizations. The print version is distributed free on Wednesdays 
in street boxes, local businesses, nonprofits and residential buildings. 
While the newspaper is only published weekly, news is updated daily on 
the Manhattan Times website for the local community. Notable current and 
