The Washington Nationals were the first important baseball club in the 
nation's capital. They played part of one season or parts of two seasons 
in the National Association, the first professional league, so they are 
considered a major league team by those who count the NA as a major league. 
Several baseball clubs in Washington have used the historic name Nationals. 
The team may also be known as the Washington Blue Legs, and played their 
home games at the Nationals Grounds and the Olympics Grounds. According 
to Retrosheet, they played two seasons in the National Association of Professional 
Base Ball Players as the Nationals, playing 11 games in 1872, and 39 games 
in 1873.[1] But according to Baseball-Reference, the franchise lasted just 
the 1873 season, and were nicknamed the Blue Legs.[2] The first team in 
Washington, the Potomac Club, was formed in the summer of 1859, and the 
Nationals were formed in November of the same year; both teams consisted 
mostly of government clerks. The two teams practiced in the backyard of 
the White House and played each other in the spring of 1860; the Nationals 
consistently lost to the superior Potomacs, but the latter disbanded on 
the outbreak of the Civil War while the Nationals kept playing, and by 
the end of the war were "solidly in the esteem of Washington fans, with 
the club's shortstop, slight, 23-year-old Arthur Pue Gorman, the darling 
of the spectators. Young Gorman quickly rose to stardom on the not-too-brilliant 
Nationals."[3] (Gorman later became a U.S. Senator from Maryland and a 
power in the Democratic Party in the late 19th Century). In the summer 
of 1865 the Nationals invited the Philadelphia Athletics and Brooklyn Atlantics, 
two of the major teams of the era, to Washington, losing to the former 
87-12 and to the latter 34-19, before 6,000 spectators, including President 
Johnson. They "jealously guarded their amateur status by refusing all payments, 
including travel expenses."[4] By 1867, the Nationals were much improved, 
and the new national network of railroads prompted them "to do the previously 
unthinkable by becoming the first Eastern team to venture west of the Alleghenies."[5] 
They defeated the best the locals had to offer, crushing Columbus 90-10, 
the Cincinnati Red Stockings 53-10, and the Cincinnati Buckeyes 88-12, 
beating Louisville, Indianapolis, and St. Louis as well before falling 
to the Rockford Forest Citys (with future Hall of Famer Albert Spalding) 
29-23. The Nats ended the road trip the next day by beating the Chicago 
Excelsiors 49-4. The "considerable expenses" of the tour were made possible 
by generous sponsors and "by the indulgence of the Treasury Department."[6] 
Washington was one of the early homes of commercialism: One writer, Thomas 
Henry, said the U. S. Treasury Department was "the real birthplace of professional 
base ball in Washington." As a source of patronage for good players, this 
department was widely exploited after the Civil War. In addition, Washington 
players benefited from the collection plates passed at games. By this kind 
of enterprise Washington clubs were able to keep a cadre of good players 
and to offer excellent accommodations. In 1867 the Nationals' park was 
located on a field four hundred feet square, surrounded by a ten foot fence, 
and shaded on the north side by roofed stands. To discourage gamblers, 
a sign which read "Betting Positively Prohibited" was posted.[7] The 1872 
Nationals home games were played at Olympics Grounds in Washington, D.C.. 
They lost all 11 games before going out of business.[1] The manager for 
this season is listed as either Warren White[8] or Joe Miller.[2] The team's 
leading players include: 1B Paul Hines, 2B Holly Hollingshead, and SS Jacob 
Doyle.[9] They won 8 games and lost 31. The Blue Legs were managed by Nick 
Young. Their top hitter was left fielder Paul Hines, who went 60-for-181, 
a batting average of .331. The 1875 NA rendition fared better, as they 
won 5 games and lost 23. Hollingshead was again their top hitting regular, 
though with a much lower batting average of .247. He was also one of the 
club's managers, along with Bill Parks. The Washingtons went out of business 
in St. Louis, Missouri, after playing the local Red Stockings on July 3 
and July 4. Next day the players announced by telegraph that a club official 
had absconded with the funds but (Ryczek 1992: 194) concludes that "the 
tale had been planted by the players in an effort to find enough good samaritans 
to foot the bill for the trip home". The club probably failed by "unappealing 
play" and consequent receipts too small to support travel. On the final 
trip, they lost two in Philadelphia and five of six in St. Louis. The final 
game was a 12-5 victory but the two local teams outscored Washington 42-5 
