The Washington metropolitan area is the metropolitan area centered on Washington, 
D.C., the capital of the United States. The area includes all of the federal 
district and parts of the U.S. states of Maryland and Virginia, along with 
a small portion of West Virginia. The Washington metropolitan area is the 
most educated and, by some measures, the most affluent metropolitan area 
in the United States.[3] As of the 2014 U.S. Census Bureau estimate[update], 
the population of the Washington metropolitan area was estimated to be 
6,097,684, making it the largest metropolitan area in the Southeast and 
the sixth-largest metropolitan area in the country.[4] The U.S. Office 
of Management and Budget defines the area as the Washington–Arlington–Alexandria, 
DC–VA–MD–WV metropolitan statistical area, a metropolitan statistical area 
used for statistical purposes by the United States Census Bureau and other 
agencies. The region's three largest cities are the federal territory of 
Washington, D.C., the county (and Census-designated place) of Arlington, 
and the independent city of Alexandria. The Office of Management and Budget 
also includes the metropolitan statistical area as part of the larger Baltimore–Washington 
metropolitan area, which has a population of 9,546,579 as of the 2014 Census 
Estimate.[5] The area is also sometimes referred to as the National Capital 
Region, particularly by federal agencies such as the military[6] Department 
of Homeland Security.[7] Another term used to describe the region is the 
D.C. Area. The area is increasingly referred to as the DMV, a shorthand 
for the District of Columbia, Maryland, and Virginia.[1][better source needed][8] 
The area in the region that is surrounded by Interstate 495 is also referred 
to as being "inside the Beltway". The city of Washington, which is at the 
center of the area, is referred to as "the District" because it is the 
federal District of Columbia, and is not part of any state. The Virginian 
portion of the region is known as Northern Virginia. The U.S. Census Bureau 
divides the Washington statistical metropolitan area into two metropolitan 
divisions:[9] Note that metropolitan area and metropolitan statistical 
area should not be confused with Metropolitan Division. The area includes 
the following counties, districts, and independent cities:[9] Founded in 
1957, the Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments (MWCOG) is a regional 
organization of 21 Washington-area local governments, as well as area members 
of the Maryland and Virginia state legislatures, the U.S. Senate, and the 
U.S. House of Representatives. MWCOG provides a forum for discussion and 
the development of regional responses to issues regarding the environment, 
transportation, public safety, homeland security, affordable housing, community 
planning, and economic development.[10] The National Capital Region Transportation 
Planning Board, a component of MWCOG, is the federally designated metropolitan 
planning organization for the metropolitan Washington area.[11] The metropolitan 
area includes the following principal cities (not all of which are incorporated 
as cities; one, Arlington, is actually a county, and another, Bethesda, 
is not even a city, simply a census-designated unincorporated area):[12] 
The relative strength of the major political parties within the region 
is shown by the presidential election results since 1960, as presented 
in the adjacent table.[citation needed] The area has been a magnet for 
international immigration since the late 1960s. It is also a magnet for 
internal migration (persons moving from one region of the U.S. to another).[13][dubious 
– discuss] Census estimates show that persons of post-1965 immigrant stock 
will likely represent 25% of the region's population by 2010, forming a 
bigger population bloc than native blacks for the first time.[14] Racial 
composition of the Washington, D.C. area: The Washington metropolitan area 
has ranked as the highest-educated metropolitan area in the nation for 
four decades.[16] As of the 2006–2008 American Community Survey, the three 
most educated places with 200,000 people or more in Washington–Arlington–Alexandria 
by bachelor's degree attainment (population 25 and over) are Arlington, 
Virginia (68.0%), Fairfax County, Virginia (58.8%), and Montgomery County, 
Maryland (56.4%).[17] Forbes magazine stated in its 2008 "America's Best- 
And Worst-Educated Cities" report: "The D.C. area is less than half the 
size of L.A., but both cities have around 100,000 Ph.D.'s."[18] The Washington, 
D.C. metro area has held the top spot in the American College of Sports 
Medicine's annual American Fitness Index ranking of the United States' 
50 most populous metropolitan areas for two years running. The report cites, 
among other things, the high average fitness level and healthy eating habits 
of residents, the widespread availability of health care and facilities 
such as swimming pools, tennis courts, and parks, low rates of obesity 
and tobacco use relative to the national average, and the high median household 
income as contributors to the city's community health.[19] In the 21st 
century, the Washington metropolitan area has overtaken the San Francisco 
Bay Area as the highest-income metropolitan area in the nation.[3] The 
median household income of the region is US$72,800. The two highest median 
household income counties in the nation – Loudoun and Fairfax County, Virginia 
– are components of the MSA (and #3 is Howard County, officially in Baltimore's 
sphere but strongly connected with Washington's); measured in this way, 
Alexandria ranks 10th among municipalities in the region – 11th if Howard 
is included – and 23rd in the entire United States. 12.2% of Northern Virginia's 
881,136 households, 8.5% of suburban Maryland's 799,300 households, and 
8.2% of Washington's 249,805 households have an annual income in excess 
of $200,000, compared to 3.7% nationally.[21] According to a report by 
the American Human Development Project, women in the Washington metropolitan 
area are ranked as having the highest income and educational attainment 
among the 25 most populous metropolitan areas in the nation, while Asian 
American women in the region had the highest life expectancy, at 92.3 years.[22] 
The various agencies of the Federal Government employ over 140,000 professionals 
in the Washington D.C. area. A sizable number in the Washington D.C. area 
work for defense and civilian contracting companies that conduct business 
directly with the Federal Government (many of these firms are referred 
to as 'Beltway Bandits' under the local vernacular). As a result, the Federal 
Government provides the underlying basis of the economy in the region. 
However, the Washington D.C. area is increasingly home to a diverse segment 
of businesses not directly related to the Federal Government.[citation 
needed] The Washington, D.C. area has the largest science and engineering 
work force of any metropolitan area in the nation in 2006 according to 
the Greater Washington Initiative at 324,530, ahead of the combined San 
Francisco Bay Area work force of 214,500, and Chicago metropolitan area 
at 203,090, citing data from U.S. Census Bureau, the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
Claritas Inc., and other sources.[3] The Washington, D.C. area was ranked 
as the second best High-Tech Center in a statistical analysis of the top 
100 Metropolitan areas in the United States by American City Business Journals 
in May 2009, behind the Silicon Valley and ahead of the Boston metropolitan 
area.[25] Fueling the metropolitan area's ranking was the reported 241,264 
tech jobs in the region, a total eclipsed only by New York, Los Angeles, 
and the combined San Jose–San Francisco–Oakland regions, as well as the 
highest master's or doctoral degree attainment among the 100 ranked metropolitan 
areas.[25] A Dice.com report showed that the Washington–Baltimore area 
had the second-highest number of tech jobs listed: 8,289, after the New 
York metro area with 9,195 jobs.[26] The Washington D.C. area is home to 
hundreds of major research universities, think tanks, and non-profit organizations. 
Additionally, Washington, D.C. is a top tourism destination as flocks of 
Americans and foreigners from around the world visit the museums and monuments 
of the Capital city year round with the peak season being during the spring 
and summer months of April through August. Moreover, the Washington D.C. 
area attracts tens of major conferences and conventions each year which 
also contribute greatly to the region's economy.[citation needed] Changes 
in house prices for the D.C. area are publicly tracked on a regular basis 
using the Case–Shiller index; the statistic is published by Standard & 
Poor's and is also a component of S&P's 10-city composite index of the 
value of the U.S. residential real estate market. McLean ZIP code 22102 
had the highest median home prices among ZIP codes within the Washington 
metropolitan area as of 2013.[27] Biotechnology Not limited to its proximity 
to the National Institutes of Health, Maryland's Washington suburbs are 
a major center for biotechnology. Prominent local biotech companies include 
GSK, MedImmune, The Institute for Genomic Research, and the Howard Hughes 
Medical Institute.[citation needed] Defense contracting Many defense contractors 
are based in the region to be close to the Pentagon in Arlington. Local 
defense contractors include Lockheed Martin, the largest, as well as Raytheon, 
General Dynamics, BAE Systems, Northrup Grumman,[28] Computer Sciences 
Corporation (CSC), Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC), 
CACI, and Orbital Sciences Corporation. The following Fortune 500 companies 
are headquartered in the region:[29] The 2005 Base Realignment and Closure 
resulted in a significant shuffling of military, civilian, and defense 
contractor employees in the Washington D.C. area. The largest individual 
site impacts of the time are as follows:[30] BRAC 2005 was the largest 
infrastructure expansion by the Army Corps of Engineers since World War 
II, resulting in the Mark Center, tallest building they have ever constructed, 
as well as National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency Campus East, which at 
2.4 million square feet is the largest building the Corps have constructed 
since the Pentagon.[31] 'WMATA'-indicated systems are run by Washington 
Metropolitan Area Transit Authority and always accept Washington Metro 
fare cards, others may or may not. Listing of the professional sports teams 
in the Washington metropolitan area: The Washington metropolitan area is 
home to USA Today, C-SPAN, PBS, NPR, POLITICO, BET, TV One and Discovery 
Communications. The two main newspapers are The Washington Post and The 
Washington Times. Local television channels include WRC-TV 4 (NBC), WTTG 
5 (FOX), WJLA 7 (ABC), WUSA 9 (CBS), WDCA 20 (MyNetworkTV), WETA-TV 26 
(PBS), WDCW 50 (CW), and WPXW 66 (Ion). NewsChannel 8 is a 24/7 local news 
provider available only to cable subscribers. Radio stations serving the 
area include: WETA-FM, WIHT, WMAL-AM, and WTOP. Coordinates: 38°53′12.33″N 
