Observer-Reporter The Washington Wild Things are a professional baseball 
team based in the Pittsburgh suburb of Washington, Pennsylvania, in the 
United States. The Wild Things are a member of the East Division of the 
Frontier League, an independent baseball league which is not affiliated 
with Major League Baseball. From the 2002 season to the present, the Wild 
Things have played their home games at Consol Energy Park. The Washington 
Wild Things were founded in December 2001 when a group of local business 
men and women decided to purchase a team to play at the new ballpark being 
constructed just off I-70 in Washington County. The group began negotiations 
with the owners of the Canton Crocodiles in the early fall of 2001. They 
completed the deal in early December, and opened up for business at a store 
front at the Washington Crown Center while the ballpark was under construction. 
In April 2002, the management team moved to Falconi Field, and the team 
inaugurated the field with a home-opener against the Canton Coyotes on 
May 29, 2002. The Washington Wild Things, under the direction of Kent Tekulve 
(Director of Baseball Operations), Jeff Isom (Field Manager), and coaches 
Joe Charboneau, Lance Robinson and Mark Mason, completed the regular season 
as league leaders in wins with 56 victories and 28 losses. The team was 
crowned the Eastern Division Champions, but they fell short in the Championship 
Round of the Playoffs (Best of 5), falling to the Richmond Roosters 3 games 
to 1. Manager Jeff Isom was awarded the Roger Hanners Manager of the Year 
Award, and pitcher Jared Howton was honored with the Bryan Tollberg Most 
Valuable Pitcher Award. Four players were named to the 2002 All-Star Team: 
SS Brad Hensler, C Shaun Argento, SP Jared Howton and RP Robert Garvin. 
The Washington Wild Things were also named Organization of the Year by 
the Frontier League. In 2003, the Washington Wild Things coaching staff 
consisted of Kent Tekulve (Director of Baseball Operations), Jeff Isom 
(Field Manager) and coaches Joe Charboneau and Mark Mason. Anxious to return 
to the playoffs, the team completed the season tied with the Chillicothe 
Paints with 54 victories and advanced to post season play. Gateway ended 
the Wild Things' quest for the Championship by defeating Washington in 
the playoffs 2 games to 0 (best of 3 series). Wild Things catcher and outfielder 
Josh Loggins received the Morgan Burkhart Award for Most Valuable Player 
from the Frontier League. The Wild Things' third season showcased a different 
coaching staff, with the exception of Mark Mason. John Massarelli joined 
the Wild Things as field manager, and Ryan Ellis, a former second baseman 
for the team, turned his efforts to coaching. The Wild Things again advanced 
to the post-season, but lost three straight to the Evansville Otters in 
the first round of the playoffs (best of 5). The Wild Things received many 
honors, however. 2B Brian Stoecklein and OF Jack Headley were named to 
the 2004 League All Star Team. Manager John Masarelli received the Roger 
Hanners Award for Manager of the Year after leading his club to a first-place 
finish in the East Division and establishing a league record for wins in 
a season. In addition, Wild Things general manager Ross Vecchio was named 
Executive of the Year and the team was once again named Organization of 
the Year by the Frontier League. Led by second-year manager John Massarelli, 
the Wild Things made Frontier League history by winning a league-record 
63 games, besting their own previous mark from the 2004 season. For the 
fourth straight season, the team advanced to the playoffs, losing the series 
3 games to 2 to the Chillicothe Paints. In July, the Frontier League played 
its annual All-Star game at Falconi Field and five Wild Things were named 
to the East team's roster: pitchers Jim Popp and Ryan Douglass, catcher 
Randy McGarvey, infielder Lance Koenig and outfielder Mike Arbinger. In 
front of a sellout crowd of 3,595, Arbinger won both the Home Run Derby 
and the All-Star Game Most Valuable Player Award as the East defeated the 
West 5-4. As the regular season concluded, the franchise set two new attendance 
records by selling out Falconi Field for 35 consecutive games and seeing 
over 150,000 people enter the stands during the course of the season. In 
September, the Frontier League named the Wild Things their Organization 
of the Year for the third time in the franchise's four-year history. The 
Wild Things enjoyed great success in their fifth season at Falconi Field, 
completing the year with a 59-37 regular season record and capturing the 
East Division Crown for the fourth time. The team advanced to post-season 
play for an unprecedented fifth consecutive season. The 2006 season proved 
to be memorable for a number of reasons. The team became the winningest 
team in Frontier League with a 294 victories in their five-year history. 
Manager John Massarelli received the Roger Hanners Manager of the Year 
Award for the second time, making him the only Frontier League Manager 
to ever repeat and win the prestigious honor more than once. Pitching Coach 
Mark Mason was named the league's Coach of the Year for his performance 
with the Wild Things. The Wild Things led all of professional baseball 
in triples, chalking up 58 in 96 games. Chris Sidick broke the Frontier 
League record for triples with 16. At the start of the 2007 season, the 
Wild Things sold facility naming rights to their new partner, CONSOL Energy, 
changing the name of the ballpark to CONSOL Energy Park. The Wild Things 
advanced to post-season play for the sixth consecutive year…a feat very 
few teams have achieved. Even though the Frontier League Crown eluded the 
Washington club, they remained the winningest team in Frontier League history. 
Nathan Messner, Robbie Knapp, and Mario Garza proceeded to hit double-figure 
homeruns as the team established a new team record with 89 homeruns. Jarod 
Rine became the first Washington player to lead the league with 33 stolen 
bases. Washington was well represented at the 2007 Frontier League All 
Star Game, with Tom Cochran, Aaron Ledbetter, Ian Heisel, Robbie Knapp, 
and Nathan Messner were all selected to play for the North Squad (Ledbetter 
was the starting pitcher). John Massarelli, the Wild Things’ field manager, 
earned his 500th managerial victory at CONSOL Energy Park in August. Aaron 
Ledbetter garnered his 30th career victory and received the Pitcher of 
the Year award from the Frontier League. The Wild Things, who maintained 
control of the Eastern Division after the first week of the season, clinched 
their fifth East Division Title in the six years on August 24 when they 
defeated the Gateway Grizzlies. The Wild Things also established a new 
team attendance record with 177,495 fans for the 2007 baseball season. 
The team played to over 100% capacity, selling out 34 games and selling 
out the 200th game in franchise history during the 2007 playoffs. Manager 
Greg Jelks took over the Wild Things in 2008, leading the team to a third-place 
finish in the Eastern Division. Washington completed the season with a 
.500 record (48-48). The Wild Things sent five representatives to the 2008 
Frontier League All-Star game. Infielder Robbie Knapp, outfielder Chris 
Sidick and designated hitter Jacob Dempsey joined the Eastern Division 
team, as well as pitchers Mike Schellinger and Aaron Ledbetter. Dempsey 
was honored as the Frontier League Designated Hitter of the Year. He ranked 
15th in the league in hitting, with a .310 average, four triples, 31 doubles 
and 88 RBIs. Sidick also had a standout year for the Wild Things. Already 
the Frontier League's all-time leader in triples, he again led the league 
with nine triples during the season. He also finished third in the league 
in runs scored with 77. Sidick batted .311 on the year with 16 doubles 
and 41 RBIs. On the mound, Brooks Dunn was among the Frontier League pitching 
leaders. Dunn posted a 3.32 ERA, which was good for ninth in the league. 
Fans continued to support the Wild Things at home. For the sixth consecutive 
year, more than 150,000 fans walked through the turnstiles at CONSOL Energy 
Park, the third highest attendance in the Frontier League but died. Mark 
Mason returned to Washington as the new manager of the Wild Things in 2009. 
He had previously served as a coach with the team and was named Frontier 
League Coach of the Year in 2006. After a slow start, the Wild Things hit 
a midseason stride. They posted a 17-9 record in July, including a five-game 
winning streak from July 7–11. Unfortunately, the Wild Things were unable 
to keep up the pace and finished the season in fourth place in the East 
Division, with a 43-53 record. Three Washington players were named to the 
Frontier League All-Star Team, and all three put in stellar performances 
at the game in Rockford. Grant Psomas and Jacob Dempsey each homered to 
help the East Division win 5-2, and Nick Peterson earned the win in relief. 
Psomas also won the All-Star Home Run Derby. Several Wild Things players 
finished the season among the Frontier League batting leaders. Jacob Dempsey 
led the league in home runs (31), RBI (95) and extra base hits (56). Dempsey 
was also third in slugging percentage at .621. Ernie Banks, who played 
for the Wild Things until mid-August led the league in slugging percentage 
(.668). Chris Sidick finished second in the league with triples with seven. 
In his fifth season with Washington, Chris Sidick set several Frontier 
League career records in 2009. Already the career record holder in triples 
(44), Sidick set new records in career games played (430), career at-bats 
(1,626), career walks (256), career hits (460). On September 3, the Wild 
Things made history with their first ever triple play, a game-ending triple 
play. The Wild Things again received the support of the Washington faithful 
during the season as 133,881 fans packed CONSOL Energy Park throughout 
the summer. Darin Everson took over as field manager for the Wild Things, 
bringing on board pitching coach Mark Dewey and hitting coach Dana Williams. 
Bob Bozzuto returned as bench coach for his fifth year with the team. The 
team finished fourth in the East Division with a 38-57 record. Chris Sidick, 
in his sixth year with the club, set league career records for runs (359) 
and total bases (845) adding to his existing league records for games (497), 
at-bats (1875), hits (535), triples (49) and walks (289). He also tied 
for third in the league with five triples for the 2010 season and became 
the first Wild Things player to play all nine positions in a single game 
on September 1 at Lake Erie. Sidick, along with second baseman Michael 
Parker and relief pitcher Kevin Hammons, was selected for the East Division 
All-Star Team. Several Wild Things pitchers shone during the season as 
well. Closer Eryk McConnell finished third in the league with 15 saves. 
Rookie starting pitcher Jeff Sonnenberg pitched two complete games, including 
a two-hit shutout against Lake Erie on July 29, in which he faced the minimum 
27 batters. Starter Billy Muldowney, who joined the team mid-season, posted 
a 1.40 ERA and fell six innings short of qualifying for the league ERA 
title. The Washington Wild Things finished fifth in the Frontier League's 
Eastern Division in 2011. The team had a 42-53 record and finished 13½ 
games behind division champion and league champion Joilet. The Wild Things 
struggled offensively nearly the entire season and never were able to muster 
enough at the plate to help the pitching staff, which had four of its members 
sign affiliated contracts during the season. Washington's lack of offensive 
output offset the pitching staff leading the Frontier League in earned 
run average and league-record for quality starts. The Wild Things finished 
last in the league in batting average, runs, hits, walks, on-base percentage 
and slugging percentage. After the season, the team and Manager Darin Everson 
parted ways. The 2012 season ushered in a new era for the Washington Wild 
Things. Gone was manager Darin Everson and in stepped Chris Bando and his 
coaching staff with years of experience in the Major Leagues. The Wild 
Things got off to a fast start in May, but an inability to produce runs 
in support of its pitching staff plagued the club in similar fashion as 
in 2011. June saw the Wild Things’ reliever Nathan Striz signed away to 
affiliated ball with the Boston Red Sox. In nine appearances for the Wild 
Things this season, Striz posted an ERA of 1.46, allowing just two earned 
runs in 12⅓ innings pitched. More impressive, Striz struck out 17 batters 
in those 12 innings. Gary Lee was the Wild Things’ lone representative 
at the Frontier League All-Star game in July. The All-Star nomination capped 
a big week for Lee who also welcomed a daughter to the world a week earlier. 
Throughout the year Washington was led by a group of locals in Andrew Heck, 
Rick Devereaux and Gus Benusa. Heck could be consistently found at the 
top of the batting statistics and when the season came to a close, was 
a nominee for the Frontier League's Rookie of the Year award. Heck also 
became just the second player in franchise history to play all nine positions 
in a single game. As the summer wore on the Wild Things continued to fall 
in the standings, but a boost to the struggling lineup came in the form 
of a late-July trade with the now-defunct London Rippers. The trade sent 
four members to the Wild Things’ that provided a bigger presence that was 
felt in the Wild Things’ lineup. One of those acquisitions would go on 
to make Frontier League history, as Darian Sandford became the single season 
stolen bases leader with 71. The acquisitions of Sandford, Mark Samuelson, 
Brad Agustin and Jim Vahalik got the Wild Things’ playing .500 ball the 
rest of the way and was a key factor in the Wild Things finishing the season 
winning six of their last seven games. As the season came to a close, the 
Wild Things finished with a 44-52 record. Gary Lee added another accolade 
to his strong season as the winner of the Fran Riordan Citizenship Award. 
Frontier League Championship Series: Defeated the Evansville Otters 2–0. 
Frontier League Championship Series: Lost vs. Richmond Roosters 3–1. Frontier 
League Championship Series: Lost vs. Windy City ThunderBolts 3–2. Pitchers 
Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches Disabled list ‡ Inactive 
list § Suspended list Roster updated May 15, 2015 Transactions 2002–2003: 
Jeff Isom (110-62) 2004–2007: John Massarelli (239-143) 2008: Greg Jelks 
(48-48) 2009: Mark Mason (43-53) 2010–2011: Darin Everson (80-110) 2012: 
Chris Bando (44-52) 2013–2014: Bart Zeller (72-74) 2014: Bob Bozzuto: (36-18) 
Following the 2003 season, Jeff Isom resigned as manager and moved to the 
Joliet Jackhammers of the Northern League. After the 2007 season, Massarelli 
and the Wild Things parted ways. He took 2008 off and was named the first 
manager in Lake Erie Crushers history. In 2008, Greg Jelks was named the 
new manager of the Wild Things, but failed to lead them to the playoffs 
and finished the season at 48-48. Mark Mason returned to the Wild Things 
in 2009 as manager after coaching the Paints for two seasons. In November 
2009, Mason left the Wild Things to become pitching coach of the Atlantic 
League's York Revolution, leaving the Wild Things without a manager. On 
February 16, 2010, they announced Darin Everson as their new manager. After 
the 2011 season, Darin Everson and the Wild Things parted ways following 
an 80-110 record over two seasons. On October 18, 2011, the Wild Things 
hired former MLB catcher and class Triple AAA coach Chris Bando as the 
6th manager in Wild things history. In March 2013 Bando announced that 
due to complications from hip surgery in January he would resign as manager. 
Recently hired Bench coach Bart Zeller, who had managed the Joliet Slammers 
the last two seasons and won a championship, was promoted to manager. During 
the 2014 season at 31-19 headed into the All-Star break, manager, Bart 
Zeller resigned due to "health concerns. He was scheduled to manage the 
Eastern All-Stars. After the break, Bob Bozzuto took over as manager. Kent 
Tekulve (pitching coach 2002–2005) Josh Loggins Jared Howton Mike Arbinger 
BJ Borsa Aaron Ledbetter Chris Sidick Tom Cochran Vidal Nuño Shain Stoner 
Quincy Latimore CJ Beatty Stewart Ijames Jim Vahalik Gary Lee 2002 Frontier 
League Eastern Division Champions 2002 Frontier League Organization of 
the Year 2002 Jared Howton, Most Valuable Pitcher 2002 Jeff Isom, Manager 
Of the Year 2003 Josh Loggins, Most Valuable Player 2004 Frontier League 
Eastern Division Champions 2004 Frontier League Organization of the Year 
2004 John Massarelli, Manager Of the Year 2005 Frontier League Eastern 
Division Champions 2005 Frontier League Organization of the Year 2006 Frontier 
League Eastern Division Champions 2006 John Massarelli, Manager Of the 
