Wayne P. Messmer (born in Chicago, IL July 19, 1950)[1] is a professional 
speaker, singer, broadcaster, author and actor. He is a professional member 
of SAG/AFTRA and the National Speakers Association. He was the long-time 
public address announcer for the Chicago Cubs. He sings "The Star-Spangled 
Banner" before many Cubs games, as well as prior to all Chicago Wolves 
American Hockey League games. Messmer is part owner of the Chicago Wolves. 
He is a member of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia, the national fraternity for men 
in music. In the mid-1980s, Messmer was the newscaster/sidekick on WYTZ 
(Z-95) Radio's "Barsky Morning Show. He also was heard as the mid-day news 
anchor on WLS 890 AM. Since November 2011, he has hosted a jazz radio program 
Sunday evenings on 90.9fm WDCB Public Radio, The Wayne Messmer Radio Show. 
For many years, he also sang for the Chicago Blackhawks, Chicago White 
Sox, Chicago Bears[2] and Chicago Sting. In January, 1991, when Messmer 
sang at the NHL All-Star Game at Chicago Stadium, he was nearly drowned 
out by cheers from the sellout crowd, mainly in support of the U.S. troops 
that had entered the Gulf War just days prior.[3] He was fired by the Blackhawks 
in 1994 when he began working for the "rival" Chicago Wolves. They allowed 
him to sing the anthem one last time at the Hawks first home game at United 
Center on January 25, 1995. On October 14, 1994 he sang the national anthem 
at the Rosemont Horizon (now Allstate Arena) introducing the Chicago Wolves 
and the IHL to Chicago. It was his first public performance since being 
shot (see below). The St. Louis Blues invited Messmer to sing the anthem 
at their home game when they opened the Kiel Center. Messmer also frequently 
performs the Anthem with his wife Kathleen. Messmer's performance of the 
Anthem has always concluded with his trademark flourish on the final word 
"Brave" in which he concludes on the dominant note (5th). This trademark 
ending has frequently been copied by other singers. In April 1994, Messmer 
was shot in the throat outside a West Side, Chicago restaurant. He survived 
the incident and after months of therapy continued his career as a singer 
and announcer. However, this incident prevented him from being able to 
sing the anthem for the final six Blackhawks home games at Chicago Stadium 
before its closing. A recording of Messmer singing was used instead for 
these games. Academically, he has earned degrees from Illinois Wesleyan 
University (B.M.E.), Loyola University Chicago (M.Ed.) and LaSalle University 
(Ph.D.) Messmer is also a Certified Speaking Professional, as recognized 
by the National Speakers Association, delivering a powerful keynote message 
of courage and conviction entitled "The Spirit of a Champion," drawn from 
his own personal life story. Messmer continues to frequently perform as 
a singer with orchestras and concert bands. He is still regularly heard 
at major sporting events. As a recording artist, his 2012 album So Lucky 
To Be Loving You features piano legend Judy Roberts as the accompanist. 
He also hosts a show on Sunday nights on 90.9 FM WDCB where he plays standards. 
He is the co-founder and co-owner of Wayne Messmer & Associates, LLC, a 
well-respected[citation needed] financial services firm specializing in 
personal and family retirement advisement. Messmer presents financial dinner 
and workshops throughout the year in the Chicago area. Messmer appeared 
