The WBSC World Rankings is a ranking system for national teams in baseball 
and softball. The teams of the member nations of the World Baseball Softball 
Confederation (WBSC), baseball's world governing body, are ranked based 
on their tournament results with the most successful teams being ranked 
highest. A point system is used, with points being awarded based on the 
results of WBSC-recognized international tournaments. Under the existing 
system, rankings are based on a team's performance over the last four years, 
with major international tournaments awarded a higher weighting compared 
to minor international and continental tournaments. In January 2009, the 
International Baseball Federation (IBAF) first published a listing in rank 
order of its member associations to provide a basis for comparison of the 
relative strengths of these teams. Though primarily focused on the respective 
men's senior teams of member nations, the current ranks also include points 
awarded based on results at the IBAF 'AAA' (Under 18) Junior and 'AA' (Under 
16) Youth Championships held during the tracking period. Beginning in 2015, 
the rankings also determine which twelve teams participate in the WBSC 
Premier12 tournament. For the current men's rankings, see chart at top 
of page and the WBSC website.[2] For the current women's rankings, see 
chart and the WBSC website.[2] The initial women's baseball rankings were 
based upon results from past Women's Baseball World Cups. While the calculations 
of the women's rankings are similar to that of the men's, one main difference 
is that they are inclusive of the three most recent IBAF Women's Baseball 
World Cups whereas the men's rankings only include the last two. Points 
are weighted in favor of the more recent results.[4] In the wake of the 
International Olympic Committee's decision to cut baseball from the 2012 
Olympics program, the IBAF pushed the growth of women's baseball as to 
include a women's component in its bid for a reinstatement of the sport 
in future Olympics. The effort to unify the sports resulted in the merger 
of the IBAF with the International Softball Federation in 2013 to create 
the WBSC.[5] As a result, the WBSC is also responsible for ranking international 
men's and women's softball teams. Under the current system used, points 
are awarded to member nations based purely on their final position in recognised 
international tournaments.[7] This is opposed to other international sports 
ranking systems such as the ICC Test Championship for cricket, that is 
based on both individual matches and the results of series, or the FIFA 
World Rankings for football, that is based solely on individual matches. 
Points are awarded according to the following table: ^* - If more than 
32 teams compete, points are only awarded to the first 32 teams. (i.e. 
the spread is from 5th - 31st, Last gets 1 point.) The points awarded after 
4th place are spread evenly in an attempt to ensure balance between tournaments 
with different-sized fields: finishing 6th out of 20 teams is considered 
to be a higher accomplishment than finishing 6th out of 8 teams. Given 
that points are not fixed beyond 4th place, a calculation is used to determine 
how many points are awarded to each position. The calculation gives the 
difference between any two consecutive positions from 4th through to last 
(e.g. 4th and 5th, 7th and 8th, 21st and 22nd, etc.). The calculation is: 
This is illustrated in the following table: A multiplier is used in awarding 
points, based on the prestige of the tournament and the quality of the 
teams involved. The table below reflects the changes in the international 
baseball schedule recently approved by the WBSC. Below are the multipliers 
that will be used beginning in 2012. World Baseball Classic 6x (Winner 
receives 50 points, multiplied by 6 for a total of 300 points) Premier 
12 6x WBC Qualifiers * (Pool winner receives 50 points, 2nd – 40 pts, 3rd 
– 30 pts, 4th – 15 pts) 21U and 18U 2x 15U and 12U 1x Continental Championships, 
Continental Qualifiers, and all other WBSC-sponsored events will receive 
a multiplier based on the number of top-10 teams from the previous year-end 
rankings that are entered in the tournament. (See below) 1.00× - Continental 
Championships/Qualifying Tournaments, where 3 or more competing teams are 
in the previous year-end top 10 0.75× - Continental Championships/Qualifying 
Tournaments, where 2 competing teams are in the previous year-end top 10 
0.50× - Continental Championships/Qualifying Tournaments, where 1 competing 
team is in the previous year-end top 10 0.25× - Continental Championships/Qualifying 
Tournaments, where no competing teams are in the previous year-end top 
10 After each tournament where ranking points are awarded, the WBSC re-releases 
the ranking list with the points from the most recent tournament added, 
