WCAU, channel 10, is an NBC owned-and-operated television station, located 
in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States. The station is owned by the 
NBCUniversal Owned Television Stations subsidiary of NBCUniversal, and 
operates as part of a television duopoly with Atlantic City, New Jersey-licensed 
Telemundo owned-and-operated station WWSI (channel 62). Both networks are 
owned by NBCUniversal, a division of the locally based media firm Comcast. 
WCAU maintains studios on Monument Road in Bala Cynwyd, along the Philadelphia/Montgomery 
County line, and its transmitter is based in the Roxborough section of 
Philadelphia. In 1946, the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin secured a construction 
permit for channel 10,[1] naming its proposed station WPEN-TV after the 
newspaper's WPEN radio stations (950 AM, now WKDN, and 98.1 FM, later WCAU-FM 
and now WOGL). The picture changed dramatically in 1947, when The Philadelphia 
Record folded. The Bulletin inherited the Record's "goodwill", along with 
the rights to buy the WCAU radio stations (1210 AM, now WPHT, and the original 
WCAU-FM (102.9 FM)) from their longtime owners, brothers Isaac and Leon 
Levy. The Bulletin sold the less-powerful WPEN and WCAU-FM, with the latter 
being renamed WPEN-FM (it is now WMGK). The Bulletin kept its FM station, 
renaming it WCAU-FM to match its new AM sister. The newspaper also kept 
its construction permit for channel 10, renaming it WCAU-TV. WCAU-TV went 
on the air on May 23, 1948 as Philadelphia's third television station.[2] 
It secured an affiliation with CBS through the influence of the Levy brothers, 
who continued to work for the newspaper as consultants. WCAU radio had 
been one of CBS's original 16 affiliates when the network premiered in 
1927. A year later, the Levy brothers persuaded their brother-in-law, William 
S. Paley, to buy the struggling network. The Levy brothers were shareholders 
and directors at CBS for many years. Due to this long relationship, channel 
10 signed on as CBS's third television affiliate. In the late 1950s, the 
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) collapsed northern Delaware, southern 
New Jersey and the Lehigh Valley into the Philadelphia market. The Bulletin 
realized that channel 10's original tower, atop the PSFS Building in Center 
City, was not nearly strong enough to serve this larger viewing area. In 
1957, WCAU-TV moved to a new 1,200-foot (370 m) tower in Roxborough, which 
added most of Delaware, the Jersey Shore and the Lehigh Valley to its city-grade 
coverage. Also in 1957, the Bulletin formed a limited partnership with 
the Megargee family, owner of CBS affiliate WGBI-TV (channel 22) in Scranton. 
As part of the deal, channel 22's call letters were changed to WDAU-TV 
(WDAU's call letters were changed again to WYOU in 1986). Soon afterward, 
the FCC ruled that the Bulletin could not keep both stations due to a large 
signal overlap in the Lehigh Valley. Although the Bulletin had only bought 
a minority stake in channel 22, the FCC ruled that this stake was so large 
that the two stations were effectively a duopoly. The Bulletin could not 
afford to get a waiver to keep both stations, so it opted to keep its stake 
in WDAU-TV and sell the WCAU stations to CBS. CBS had to seek a waiver 
to buy the WCAU stations, as the signals of the WCAU stations overlapped 
with those of WCBS-AM-FM-TV in New York City (in the case of the AM stations, 
both were clear-channel stations; the FCC at the time usually did not allow 
common ownership of clear-channel stations with overlapping nighttime coverage 
areas). However, in its application for a waiver, CBS cited NBC's then-ownership 
of WRCV-TV in Philadelphia (channel 3, now KYW-TV) and WRCA-TV in New York 
City (now WNBC). The FCC readily granted the waiver, and CBS took control 
in 1958. From 1965 to 1986, WCAU-TV was the only network-owned station 
in Philadelphia. As such, it was the only station in the city that did 
not heavily or moderately preempt network programming. It ran an hour of 
Saturday morning cartoons during the 7 a.m. hour on a one-week delay to 
run the hour-long locally produced children's program, The Gene London 
Show, which ended in 1977. Beginning in 1978, WCAU-TV began preempting 
an hour of Sunday morning cartoon reruns and in the beginning of 1979 the 
station preempted an hour of the Saturday morning cartoons. By 1980, the 
station was running the entire Saturday morning cartoon lineup again and 
by early in 1981, the Sunday morning hour of children's programs was brought 
back. In 1994, CBS entered into a long-term affiliation agreement with 
Westinghouse (Group W) Broadcasting, owners of Philadelphia's longtime 
NBC affiliate, KYW-TV (channel 3). Westinghouse converted three of its 
stations, KYW-TV among them, into CBS affiliates. CBS was reluctant to 
include KYW-TV in the deal, since it had been a very distant third in the 
Philadelphia ratings for more than a decade. In contrast, WCAU was a solid 
runner-up to ABC-owned station WPVI-TV (channel 6). Ultimately, CBS decided 
to affiliate with channel 3 and sell channel 10, ending a 47-year relationship 
(including 37 years of ownership) with the station. NBC and New World Communications 
then emerged as the leading bidders for WCAU.[3] NBC had wanted to own 
a station in Philadelphia for many years; for most of the broadcasting 
era, Philadelphia was the largest market where NBC didn't own a station. 
It briefly succeeded in 1956, when it extorted Westinghouse into exchanging 
channel 3 (then called WPTZ-TV) and KYW radio for NBC's Cleveland stations, 
WTAM-AM-FM and WNBK television. However, after Westinghouse complained, 
the FCC and the U.S. Justice Department nullified the swap in June 1965. 
New World got into the bidding because it had just signed a multi-year 
affiliation deal with Fox, and intended to make WCAU a Fox station had 
it emerged victorious. Fox's affiliate in Philadelphia, WTXF-TV, was about 
to become an affiliate of the United Paramount Network, which was to be 
programmed mostly by WTXF's owner, Paramount Pictures. New World found 
the chance to give Fox a VHF station in the nation's fourth-largest market 
too much to resist. Fox jumped into the bidding as well in case New World's 
bid fell through. However, Viacom, which bought Paramount in mid-1994, 
opted instead to sell WTXF to Fox. New World pulled out of the bidding 
war for WCAU as well, effectively handing channel 10 to NBC. Had WCAU become 
a Fox station, it would have retained its status as the "home" station 
of the NFL's Philadelphia Eagles. The station had carried Eagles games 
since 1950, and had carried the majority of Eagles games since CBS won 
the rights to NFL games in 1956. Indeed, Fox had cut its affiliation deal 
with New World because it had recently won the rights to the National Football 
Conference, where the Eagles play, and most games were thus moved to WTXF; 
New World owned a large number of CBS affiliates. While KYW-TV's sister 
stations, WBZ-TV in Boston and WJZ-TV in Baltimore, switched to CBS in 
January 1995, the swap was delayed in Philadelphia when CBS discovered 
that an outright sale of channel 10 would have forced it to pay massive[clarification 
needed] taxes on the proceeds from the deal.[4] To solve this problem, 
CBS, NBC and Group W entered into a complex ownership and affiliation deal 
in late 1994. NBC traded KCNC-TV in Denver and required in a deal was KUTV 
in Salt Lake City (NBC had acquired that station earlier that year) to 
CBS in return for WCAU, which for legal reasons would be an even trade. 
CBS then traded controlling interest in KCNC and KUTV to Group W in return 
for a minority stake in KYW-TV – that would result in two latter stations 
– displacing their respective longtime network affiliates, KMGH-TV and 
KSL-TV. As compensation for the loss of stations, NBC and CBS traded broadcasting 
facilities in Miami. The deal officially took effect on September 10, 1995. 
Group W's parent, the Westinghouse Electric Corporation, purchased CBS 
two months later, making CBS's Philadelphia radio stations sisters to WCAU-AM/WPHT's 
longtime rival, KYW radio. Although the radio stations had dropped the 
WCAU calls some years before, NBC dropped the -TV suffix from channel 10's 
callsign soon after it assumed control. In January 2011, the Philadelphia-based 
cable and media company Comcast acquired a 51% majority stake in WCAU's 
parent company, by then known as NBC Universal, which effectively makes 
the station locally owned.[5] Comcast bought the other 49% in early 2013. 
In March 2013, NBCUniversal announced that it would buy Telemundo affiliate 
WWSI from ZGS Communications for $20 million, giving WCAU a duopoly partner, 
as with several other NBC O&Os.[6] The sale was completed on June 2 of 
that year.[7] Channel 10 was originally located at 1622 Chestnut Street 
in Center City along with its sister radio stations (the building, which 
was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1983, now houses 
The Art Institute). In 1952, the WCAU stations moved to a new facility 
in the Main Line suburb of Bala Cynwyd. The studio, located on Monument 
Road at City Line Avenue, was a state-of-the-art television center, and 
the first building in America constructed specifically for broadcasting. 
Channel 10 is still headquartered there. On January 16, 2014, it was announced 
that WCAU will move to the under-construction Comcast Innovation and Technology 
Center on Arch Street in Center City, which will be built by Comcast, which 
owns NBC. This 59-story building will become the tallest building in Philadelphia, 
and will be the tallest building in the United States, outside of New York 
and Chicago.[9] The station's digital channel is multiplexed: On October 
25, 2010, WCAU introduced its own version of WNBC's New York Nonstop channel, 
NBC Philadelphia Nonstop. This subchannel featured various news and entertainment 
programs, and a locally produced newscast at 7 p.m. On December 20, 2012, 
digital subchannel 10.2 became an affiliate of Cozi TV, which replaced 
the Nonstop network. 34.3 (virtual 62.3) is utilized as a simulcast of 
sister station WWSI in order to make that station available to viewers 
in the Philadelphia area that the station's main transmitter in Waterford 
Township, NJ does not reach. WCAU also has a Mobile DTV feed of subchannel 
10.1, labelled "NBC10", broadcasting at 1.83 Mbit/s.[11][12] WCAU shut 
down its analog signal, over VHF channel 10, on June 12, 2009, the official 
date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned 
from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's 
digital signal moved from its pre-transition UHF channel 67, which was 
among the high band UHF channels (52-69) that were removed from broadcasting 
use as a result of the transition, to UHF channel 34, because ABC affiliate 
WHTM-TV in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania continued broadcasting on channel 10 
after ceasing channel 27 analog transmission that day.[13][14] Through 
the use of PSIP, digital television receivers continue to display the station's 
virtual channel as its former VHF analog channel 10.1. WCAU presently broadcasts 
37½ hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with 6½ hours on weekdays, 
three hours on Saturdays and two hours on Sundays). News has been produced 
at WCAU from when the station went on the air on in 1948. Charles Shaw, 
who had worked with Edward R. Murrow as a CBS correspondent in London during 
World War II, was the station's news director from 1948 until he left the 
station in the early 1960s. John Facenda, who later gained fame as the 
voice of NFL Films, was the station's main anchorman from shortly after 
it signed on until 1973. At the time he retired, he had been a main anchor 
longer than anyone in Philadelphia; he has since been passed by WPVI's 
Jim Gardner. Soon after joining the station, Facenda sold the Bulletin 
on the idea of a local 11 p.m. newscast – the first in the country. It 
aired for the first time on September 8. In 1950, WCAU became the first 
station with a four-man news team. The 6 p.m. newscast was anchored by 
Facenda, with Philadelphia radio legend Phil Sheridan handling weather, 
Jack Whitaker on sports and Ed McMahon as announcer. In 1965, channel 10 
introduced the "Big News" format from Los Angeles sister station KNXT (now 
KCBS-TV). The station's news operation was the ratings leader in Philadelphia 
for most of the time from the late 1940s until the 1960s, when it was surpassed 
by KYW-TV's Eyewitness News. The station then remained a strong second 
until the 1970s, when WPVI-TV's Action News bumped channel 10 down to third 
place. WCAU struggled through the late 1970s while most of its CBS sister 
stations dominated the ratings, but has since recovered and has been a 
solid runner-up to longtime leader WPVI for over a quarter century. WCAU 
managed to pass WPVI in the 5 p.m. time slot for a time in the early 1980s 
with its original Live at 5, anchored by Larry Kane and Deborah Knapp (now 
at KENS-TV in San Antonio). In 2001, WCAU made national news when its 11 
p.m. newscast (anchored by Larry Mendte and Renee Chenault-Fattah) knocked 
WPVI from the top spot in the local news ratings for the first time in 
decades. Since 2003, WCAU has had to fend off a spirited challenge from 
a resurgent KYW-TV for second place in the Philadelphia ratings; Channel 
3's resurgence was fueled in part by luring Mendte away from channel 10. 
WCAU used music based on "Channel 2 News", written by Shelton Leigh Palmer 
for WBBM-TV in Chicago (the 'de facto' official music for CBS' O&O stations) 
and variations on it from 1982 until the 11 p.m. newscast on September 
9, 1995 hours before the switch to NBC. It used the original 1975 version 
from 1982 to 1987, a synthesized version produced by a local composer during 
the 1987-88 season and the "Palmer News Package" from 1988 to 1995. KYW-TV 
has used variants on this theme in recent years. Shortly after CBS agreed 
to sell the station to NBC, WCAU dropped its longtime moniker of Channel 
10 News in favor of NewsCenter 10. After the sale closed, NBC changed the 
newscast name to News 10, it became NBC 10 News in 2000. On December 10, 
2005, WCAU took over production of WPHL-TV (channel 17)'s nightly half-hour 
10 p.m. newscast after that station shuttered its in-house news department 
and laid off its entire news and production staff; this new newscast was 
called WB 17 News at 10, Powered by NBC 10. On July 25, 2006, the program 
was renamed My PHL 17 News, Powered by NBC 10 to correspond with WPHL's 
then-pending switch to MyNetworkTV. This newscast competed with the 10 
p.m. newscasts on WTXF (channel 29, which is produced in-house) and WPSG 
(channel 57, which is produced by KYW-TV). WPVI has since taken over production 
of WPHL's 10 p.m. newscast; on September 14, 2012, WCAU produced its last 
10 p.m. newscast on WPHL-TV. From 2001 to 2005 WPPX-TV rebroadcast some 
of WCAU's newscasts. On November 13, 2008, Fox Television Stations and 
NBC Local Media entered into an agreement to test a system that would allow 
Fox-owned stations and NBC-owned stations to pool their news resources 
ranging from shared video to any aerial video from a helicopter. WCAU and 
Fox owned-and-operated station WTXF were the first stations to undertake 
the plan (known as a "Local News Service" agreement) as an effective way 
to deal with the difficulties in costs in news operations.[15] WCAU later 
announced in September 2012, that it would be leaving the Local News Service 
agreement with WTXF and KYW-TV (which entered the agreement by 2010) and 
utilize its own helicopter; the new helicopter dubbed "Skyforce 10" debuted 
on February 25, 2013. WCAU became the fourth and last English-language 
television station in the Philadelphia market to begin broadcasting its 
local news programming in high-definition on December 10, 2008, starting 
with its 4 p.m. newscast.[16] On September 12, 2011, WCAU expanded its 
weekday morning newscast to 4:30 a.m., along with the launch of a new midday 
newscast at 11 a.m., and the reduction of The 10! Show to a half-hour program. 
On December 6, 2011, the station announced a partnership with public broadcasting 
stations WHYY-FM-TV as part of a larger effort by NBCUniversal to partner 
with nonprofit news organizations following its acquisition by Comcast.[17] 
On September 15, 2012, The 10! Show ended its run after ten years. On September 
17, 2012, WCAU's midday newscast expanded to one hour.[18] Their morning 
newscast starts at 4:00am. Morning anchor Vai Sikahema may be the station's 
most recognizable current personality. A former Philadelphia Eagle, Sikahema 
is one of several former NFL stars who have gone on to become sports news 
anchors (other notable examples include Jim Hill of KCBS-TV Los Angeles 
and Len Dawson of KMBC-TV Kansas City). While Sikahema anchors the sportscasts 
on WCAU-TV weeknights, on-air personalities from Comcast SportsNet Philadelphia 
have anchored sports on weekends in recent years, owing to Comcast owning 
NBC through NBCUniversal since the current decade began. In February 2014, 
WCAU became the second television station in Philadelphia (behind Fox O&O 
WTXF-TV) to expand its weekday morning newscast to three hours, with addition 
of a half-hour at 4:00 a.m. In conjunction with this, they switched its 
music to the "L.A. Groove" theme that has been in use by sister station 
KNBC in Los Angeles. On July 11, 2016 beginning with the 4:00 p.m. newscast, 
WCAU became the seventh NBC-owned station to begin using ArtWorks' "Look 
N" graphics package following WNBC (New York City), WTVJ (Miami), WVIT 
(Hartford), KXAS-TV (Dallas/Fort Worth), WMAQ-TV (Chicago); WRC-TV (Washington 
D.C.) began using the package in June. On June 26, 1972, three news correspondents 
were killed in a helicopter crash in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, where they 
had been covering the flooding stemming from Hurricane Agnes. The victims 
were Del Vaughn of CBS News and Sid Brenner and Louis Clark of WCAU, and 
the pilot, Mike Sedio. The helicopter lost its rotor some three hundred 
feet above the Capital City Airport, crashed, and exploded on the runway.[19] 
