WCBS-TV, channel 2, is the flagship station of the CBS Television Network, 
located in New York City. WCBS-TV is owned by the CBS Television Stations 
division of CBS Corporation, and operates as part of a television duopoly 
with Riverhead, Long Island-licensed independent station WLNY-TV (channel 
55). WCBS-TV's studios are located within the CBS Broadcast Center and 
its transmitter is based at the Empire State Building, both in midtown 
Manhattan. In the few areas of the eastern United States where a CBS station 
is not receivable over-the-air, WCBS is available on satellite via DirecTV 
(which also provides coverage of the station to Latin American and Caribbean 
countries and through major U.S. air carriers on LiveTV) and Dish Network 
(which carries the station as part of All American Direct's distant network 
package). WCBS-TV's history dates back to CBS' opening of experimental 
station W2XAB on July 21, 1931, using the mechanical television system 
that had been more-or-less perfected in the late 1920s. Its first broadcast 
featured New York Mayor Jimmy Walker, Kate Smith, and George Gershwin. 
The station had the first regular seven-day broadcasting schedule in American 
television, broadcasting 28 hours a week. Among its early programming included 
The Television Ghost (1931–1933), Helen Haynes (1931–1932) and Piano Lessons 
(1931–1932). Announcer-director Bill Schudt was the station's only paid 
employee; all other staff were volunteers. W2XAB pioneered program development 
including small-scale dramatic acts, monologues, pantomime, and the use 
of projection slides to simulate sets. Engineer Bill Lodge devised the 
first synchronized sound wave for a television station in 1932, enabling 
W2XAB to broadcast picture and sound on a single shortwave channel instead 
of the two previously needed. On November 8, 1932, W2XAB broadcast the 
first television coverage of presidential election returns. The station 
suspended operations on February 20, 1933, as monochrome television transmission 
standards were in flux, and in the process of changing from a mechanical 
to an all-electronic system. W2XAB returned with an all-electronic system 
in 1939 from a new studio complex in Grand Central Station and a transmitter 
atop the Chrysler Building broadcasting on channel 2.[1] W2XAB transmitted 
the first color broadcast in the United States on August 28, 1940.[2] On 
June 24, 1941, W2XAB received a commercial construction permit and program 
authorization as WCBW. The station went on the air at 2:30 p.m. on July 
1, one hour after rival WNBT (channel 1, formerly W2XBS and now WNBC), 
making it the second authorized fully commercial television station in 
the United States. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) issued permits 
to CBS and NBC at the same time and intended WNBT and WCBW to sign on simultaneously 
on July 1, so no one station could claim to be the "first". WCBW's initial 
broadcast was the first local newscast aired on a commercial station in 
the country. Its assigned frequency was 60–66 MHz, now known as channel 
3 but then referred to as Channel 2 in the 1940–46 alignment of the VHF 
band.[citation needed] Program schedules were irregular through the summer 
and early fall of 1941. Regular daily operations began on October 29 and 
WCBW received a full license to cover its construction permit and commercial 
program authorization on March 10, 1942. After the war, the FCC re-allocated 
the television and FM bands. WCBW closed down its operation on the old 
channel 2 at the end of February 1946 (the 60–66 MHz band had been re-allocated 
to WPTZ in Philadelphia as channel 3) in order to move to a new channel 
2 at 54–60 MHz. It quickly began operation on the new frequency, where 
it remained from the spring of 1946 until the end of analog full power 
television service in the late spring of 2009. The call letters were changed 
to WCBS-TV on November 1, 1946, after the FCC allowed television stations 
owned by radio stations in the same city to use the same call letters as 
the radio station with the suffix -TV – it is the only station in the CBS-owned 
television station to have been built from the ground up by the network.[citation 
needed] On February 26, 1951, WCBS-TV became the first station to broadcast 
a regularly scheduled feature film series, The Late Show. On August 11, 
1951, WCBS-TV broadcast the first baseball game on color television, between 
the Brooklyn Dodgers and Boston Braves from Ebbets Field. As were all color 
programs at the time, it was transmitted via a field-sequential color system 
developed by CBS. Signals transmitted this way could not be seen on existing 
black-and-white sets. The CBS color system was scrapped after the FCC embraced 
the alternative RCA all-electronic dot sequential system, which was fully 
compatible with the existing monochrome television standard, late in 1953. 
However, CBS telecast few programs in color, either locally or on the network, 
until the mid-1960s when color receivers began to grow in popularity.[citation 
needed] In May 1997, the station adopted the "CBS 2" branding, along with 
sister stations KCBS-TV in Los Angeles and WBBM-TV in Chicago, while retaining 
a unique and distinctive logo. The practice of CBS-owned stations placing 
the network identity ahead of their local identity would end up being known 
as the "Viacom Mandate" (later the "CBS Mandate"). WCBS-TV was the only 
major New York City television station to remain on the air during the 
September 11 attacks that destroyed the World Trade Center in 2001. Unlike 
its competitors, channel 2 had long maintained a full-powered backup transmitter 
at the Empire State Building after moving its main transmitter to the North 
Tower of the World Trade Center in 1975. The station's coverage of the 
attacks was also simulcast nationally on Viacom (which owned CBS at the 
time) cable network VH1 that day. In the immediate aftermath of the attacks, 
WCBS-TV was briefly the only full-coverage over-the-air television service 
operating in New York City, although the station lent transmission time 
to other stations who had lost their transmitters until they found suitable 
backup equipment and locations. The backup transmitter had been put into 
operation once before, when the World Trade Center bombing of February 
26, 1993 knocked most of the area's stations off the air for a week. On 
December 12, 2011, CBS Television Stations announced its intent to purchase 
Riverhead, Long Island-licensed WLNY-TV (channel 55), later announced for 
a purchase price of $55 million, creating a duopoly with WCBS-TV.[3] The 
company announced that it would add additional on-air staff and expand 
WLNY's local news programming (at the time, that station had only an 11 
p.m. newscast). The FCC approved the sale on January 31, 2012, and CBS 
took control of the station on March 30. WLNY suspended its own news operations 
the previous day[4] and began airing WCBS-TV produced newscasts on July 
2, 2012. The station's digital channel is multiplexed: Digital subchannel 
2.2, branded as CBS New York Plus, was launched in November 2011 as a 24-hour 
news channel drawing upon the resources of WCBS-TV, WCBS radio (880 AM), 
WINS (1010 AM), and WFAN-AM-FM (660 AM and 101.9 FM). The Plus service 
was eventually planned to be rolled out to CBS' other owned-and-operated 
stations, but only WCBS and KYW-TV in Philadelphia added Plus channel services.[6] 
Decades was launched on subchannel 2.2 in January 2015. WCBS-TV discontinued 
regular programming on its analog signal, over VHF channel 2, at 2 p.m. 
on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog 
to digital television with a sign off.[7] The Station went off the air 
until 3 p.m. in preparations for its nightlight service.[8] The station's 
digital signal moved from its pre-transition UHF channel 56, which was 
among the high band UHF channels (52–69) that were removed from broadcasting 
use as a result of the transition, to UHF channel 33,[9] using PSIP to 
display WCBS-TV's virtual channel as 2 on digital television receivers. 
Since the station qualified for the nightlight clause in the DTV Delay 
Act,[10] WCBS kept its analog signal on for one month to provide public 
service announcements, starting on 3 p.m. on June 12 and permanently shutting 
it down during the early morning hours of July 13, 2009; this possibly 
made it the last full power NTSC broadcast television station in the United 
States to discontinue analog transmissions.[10] WCBS-TV currently has a 
construction permit for a digital fill-in translator on channel 22 in Plainview, 
Long Island, which will serve portions of eastern and central Long Island 
where WCBS-TV's signal is affected by the presence of WFSB, a CBS affiliate 
in Hartford, Connecticut which also broadcasts on channel 33.[11] On October 
21, 2014, CBS and Weigel Broadcasting announced the launch of a new digital 
subchannel service called Decades, scheduled to launch on all CBS-owned 
stations on May 25, 2015, including on WCBS-TV on channel 2.2. The channel 
is co-owned by CBS and Weigel (owner of CBS affiliate WDJT-TV in Milwaukee), 
with Weigel being responsible for distribution to non-CBS-owned stations. 
It will air programs from the extensive library of CBS Television Distribution, 
including archival footage from CBS News.[12] WCBS-TV serves as the flagship 
station for the following shows: Hot Bench, Judge Judy and Dr. Phil. In 
2002, WCBS-TV acquires free to air rights to the New York Yankees baseball 
games, assumed from Fox owned-and-operated station WNYW after the 2001 
season, the games was produced by the new YES Network from its launch until 
the 2004 season, when the free to air rights of Yankees baseball games 
moved to UPN affiliated (now MyNetwork TV owned-and-operated) station WWOR-TV 
beginning with the 2005 season. From 1956 until 1993, WCBS-TV carrying 
New York Giants games, this is due to the network's Primary rights of the 
National Football Conference (NFC), but in 1994, when the NFC and the Giants 
games was moved to Fox; currently, the Giants preseason games are carried 
by NBC owned-and-operated station WNBC (with WWOR-TV being served as an 
overflow Station if the Summer Olympics conflicts the preseason schedule). 
After its 5 year absence, The NFL returned to CBS and WCBS-TV by acquiring 
the rights of the American Football Conference (AFC) and the station currently 
airs the New York Jets preseason and regular season games, During the regular 
season some Jets games are rotated with WNBC (through NBC Sunday Night 
Football and Thursday Night Football), WNYW (through NFL on Fox), WABC-TV 
(through Monday Night Football), WPIX (through Monday Night Football (if 
WABC-TV is not airing them) and select TNF telecasts not carried by WCBS-TV 
through CBS' rights or WNBC through NBC's rights to the package it shares 
with NFL Network), and at rare cases, WWOR-TV (through Monday Night Football). 
WCBS-TV presently broadcasts 31½ hours of locally produced newscasts each 
week (with five hours on weekdays and 2½ hours each on Saturdays and Sundays). 
Like other CBS-owned stations, WCBS-TV offers a web only newscast called 
"CBS 2 at Your Desk", available weekdays at 9 a.m. Also, available are 
streamlined editions of the noon, 5 and 6, and the 11 p.m. newscasts. There 
is also a "LoHud Report" edition of "At Your Desk", operated by WCBS-TV 
and LoHud.com, the website for The Journal News, a Gannett Company-owned 
newspaper covering the lower Hudson Valley. The Journal News has a partnership 
with the station where WCBS-TV uses the newspaper's offices for its Westchester 
Bureau, and The Journal News gets a 30-second promotion during the 6 p.m. 
newscast for the next day's top story.[citation needed] WCBS-TV cooperates 
with sister station KYW-TV in Philadelphia in the production and broadcast 
of statewide New Jersey political debates. When the two stations broadcast 
a statewide office debate, such as for Governor or United States Senate, 
they will pool resources and have anchors or reporters from both stations 
participate in the debate. Additionally, the two stations cooperate in 
the gathering of news in New Jersey where their markets overlap; sharing 
reporters, live trucks and helicopters.[citation needed] Upon becoming 
commercial station WCBW in 1941, the station broadcast two daily news programs, 
at 2:30 and 7:30 p.m. weekdays, anchored by Richard Hubbell. Most of the 
newscasts featured Hubbell reading a script with only occasional cutaways 
to a map or still photograph. When Pearl Harbor was bombed on December 
7, 1941, WCBW (which was usually off the air on Sunday to give the engineers 
a day off), took to the air at 8:45 p.m. that Sunday with an extensive 
special report. The national emergency even broke down the unspoken wall 
between CBS radio and television. WCBW executives convinced radio announcers 
and experts such as George Fielding Elliot and Linton Wells to come down 
to the Grand Central Station studios during the evening and give information 
and commentary on the attack. The WCBW special report that night lasted 
less than 90 minutes. But that special broadcast pushed the limits of live 
television in 1941 and opened up new possibilities for future broadcasts. 
As CBS wrote in a special report to the FCC, the unscheduled live news 
broadcast on December 7 “was unquestionably the most stimulating challenge 
and marked the greatest advance of any single problem faced up to that 
time.” Additional newscasts were scheduled in the early days of the war. 
In May 1942, WCBW (like almost all television stations) sharply cut back 
its live program schedule and the newscasts were cancelled, since the station 
temporarily suspended studio operations, resorting exclusively to the occasional 
broadcast of films. This was primarily due to the fact that much of the 
staff had either joined the service or were redeployed to war-related technical 
research, and to prolong the life of the early, unstable cameras which 
were now impossible to repair due to the wartime lack of parts. In May 
1944, as the war began to turn in favor of the Allies, WCBW reopened the 
studios and the newscasts returned, briefly anchored by Ned Calmer, and 
then by Everett Holles.[13] After the war, expanded news programs appeared 
on the WCBW schedule—renamed WCBS-TV in 1946—first anchored by Milo Boulton, 
and later by Douglas Edwards. On May 3, 1948, Douglas Edwards began anchoring 
CBS Television News, a regular 15-minute nightly newscast on the rudimentary 
CBS network, including WCBS-TV. It aired every weeknight at 7:30 p.m., 
and was the first regularly scheduled, network television news program 
featuring an anchor (the nightly Lowell Thomas NBC radio network newscast 
was simulcast on television locally on NBC's WNBT (channel 4, now WNBC) 
for a time in the early 1940s, and Richard Hubbell, Ned Calmer, Everett 
Holles and Milo Boulton on WCBW in the early and mid-1940s, but these were 
local television broadcasts seen only in New York City). The NBC television 
network's offering at the time NBC Television Newsreel (premiering in February 
1948) was simply film with voice narration. In 1950, the name of the nightly 
news was changed to Douglas Edwards with the News, and the following year, 
it became the first news program to be broadcast on both coasts, thanks 
to a new coaxial cable connection, prompting Edwards to use the greeting 
"Good evening everyone, coast to coast." The broadcast was renamed the 
CBS Evening News when Walter Cronkite replaced Edwards in 1962.[14] Edwards 
remained with CBS News with various daytime television newscasts and radio 
news broadcasts until his retirement on April 1, 1988. In the 1950s through 
the mid-1960s, WCBS-TV's local newscasts were anchored by CBS News correspondent 
Robert Trout. In 1965, Trout left for a new assignment in Europe and was 
succeeded by Jim Jensen. Jensen had only come to WCBS-TV a year earlier 
(he had been at WBZ-TV in Boston), but was already well known for his coverage 
of Robert F. Kennedy's 1964 campaign for the United States Senate. During 
the 1960s, WCBS-TV battled WNBC-TV (channel 4) for the top-rated news department 
in New York City. After WABC-TV (channel 7) introduced Eyewitness News 
in the late 1960s, WCBS-TV went back and forth in first place with Channel 
7, in a rivalry that continued through the 1970s. For much of the early 
1980s, New York's "Big Three" stations took turns in the top spot. During 
this time, three of the longest-tenured anchor teams in New York – Jensen 
and Rolland Smith, WABC-TV's Roger Grimsby and Bill Beutel, and WNBC-TV's 
Chuck Scarborough and Sue Simmons – went head-to-head with each other.[citation 
needed] WCBS-TV had many well-known personalities during this era: anchors 
Dave Marash, Rolland Smith, Michele Marsh and Vic Miles; meteorologists 
Dr. Frank Field and John Coleman; reporters Meredith Vieira, Randall Pinkston, 
Tony Guida, John Stossel and Arnold Diaz and sportscaster Warner Wolf. 
Vieira, Pinkston and Guida later moved to the CBS network. Vieira later 
moved to NBC where she co-hosted the morning show Today until leaving and 
being replaced with Ann Curry. In 1987, WABC-TV surged to first place. 
As the 1990s began, Channel 2 found itself increasingly losing its ratings 
share to WNBC. One of management's more controversial responses was to 
take Jensen off the anchor desk in late 1994 and demote him to host of 
a Sunday morning public-affairs show, Sunday Edition. He also hosted a 
few episodes of the regular "Sports Update" show on Sunday nights at 11:30 p.m. 
At the time, Jensen had served as an anchor longer than anyone in New York 
television history (he has since been passed by WABC-TV's Beutel and WNBC's 
Scarborough). The move was roundly criticized by many in New York, especially 
since WCBS-TV had supported him after he went into drug rehabilitation 
in 1988. Another controversy involved an exchange between Jensen and co-anchor 
Bree Walker, whose fingers and toes are fused together as a result of the 
condition ectrodactyly. After Walker did a report about her experience 
with the condition, Jensen asked Walker, on the air, if her parents would 
have aborted her had they known she would have been born with the condition. 
Walker kept her composure on air but soon left the station.[15] The incident 
took place shortly before Jensen's entry to drug rehabilitation. Station 
management came under more fire in 1995 when Jensen was forced to retire 
shortly after the Westinghouse Electric Corporation announced it was buying 
CBS. By the end of 1995, Channel 2 had crashed into last place for the 
first time in its history while WNBC surged to a strong second place – 
a pecking order that would remain in place for eleven years. The station's 
news branding change from Channel 2 News to just 2 News during that time 
contributed to the station's last-place finish in the February 1996 sweeps 
period. On October 2, 1996, the station executed an unprecedented mass 
firing without any advance warning, citing the need to shake up its news 
operation. Seven people were fired: anchors John Johnson, Michele Marsh 
and Tony Guida; sports anchor Bernie Smilovitz (who promptly returned to 
his previous station, WDIV in Detroit); and reporters Reggie Harris, Roseanne 
Colletti and Magee Hickey.[16] The firings came after the 6 p.m. newscast. 
Johnson and Marsh had anchored the 5 p.m. newscasts and signed off at 6 
p.m. saying, "We'll see you at 11," but never got a chance to say goodbye 
on the air. "The massacre," as it has come to be known, was part of a move 
enacted by then-news director Bill Carey to boost ratings, although it 
came at a time when CBS was under pressure to boost revenues, having just 
merged with Westinghouse. It was also part of a major reconstruction of 
the newscast, culminating in the May 1997 rebranding to News 2; 2 months 
prior, Warner Wolf had returned to the station, having left in 1992 for 
WUSA-TV, the CBS affiliate in Washington. When the News 2 name was put 
in place, a format change was also instituted, going for a faster-paced 
newscast with more stories; this was reinforced by reminders that News 
2 had "More news in less time, everytime" and a "Rundown" of stories to 
come. After a year, little to no progress in the ratings was made, so this 
format was done away with; a new "Virtual studio" format, alongside bright, 
orange and white graphics and a "club" remix of the CBS Enforcer theme, 
was tried out. This did not work either, so this approach was junked, in 
favor of a more "traditional" newscast. The "club" remix of the CBS Enforcer 
theme would continue to be used until early 2000. In 2000, Joel Cheatwood, 
creator of the 7 News format at WSVN in Miami, was appointed as the station's 
news director. At his suggestion, the newscasts were rebranded from News 
2 to the CBS 2 Information Network, using "content partners" such as U.S. 
News & World Report and VH1. He also gave the newscasts more of a tabloid 
feel. While considerably watered down compared to Bill Applegate's work 
at WBBM-TV in Chicago, John Lippmann's work at KCBS-TV in Los Angeles, 
Fox flagship WNYW, and Cheatwood's work at WSVN – and even compared to 
WSVN's sister station, WHDH in Boston—it was much flashier than had been 
seen on New York's "Big Three" affiliates. He also retooled the 11 p.m. 
report as a "gritty, down-to-earth" style newscast, termed Nightcast. At 
this point, the station was sharing studio space with CBS Sports (having 
shared street-side studios with CBS' then-morning newscast, The Early Show, 
as a part of its short-lived attempt at a newscast at 4 p.m., which they 
had attempted in the early 1990s). It also began usage of two different 
music packages from Edd Kalehoff (who had composed WNBC's "We're 4 New 
York" campaign and "NBC Stations" package that was in use at the time), 
one for the normal newscasts titled Grandeur, which began alongside the 
debut of the 4PM news, and another package especially intended for Nightcast. 
It did not work, and Cheatwood was gone by 2002 in favor of New York veteran 
news director Dianne Doctor. The station became simply CBS 2, and gradually 
phased out the tabloid elements, the Information Network, and Nightcast. 
In its place, Doctor introduced a "news for the people" approach similar 
to that of her previous employer, WNBC. The Kalehoff-produced music packs 
were replaced with the John Hegner-produced "News in Focus" which sister 
KCBS had used starting in 1997 (and had replaced just days before WCBS 
adopted the package); several pieces of Grandeur have since been recycled 
by Kalehoff as music cues on The Price Is Right. The graphics and logo 
mainly became blue and silver, with that color motif remaining to this 
day (albeit with the addition of gold) with successive graphics packages, 
including the last several which have been shared with most of the other 
stations in the CBS O&O group. After Doctor's arrival, WCBS placed a revived 
emphasis on hard news, while attempting to revive some elements of its 
glory days. For instance, in 2003 Arnold Diaz rejoined the station to revive 
"Shame on You", an Emmy Award-winning series of investigative segments. 
He had worked at the station from 1973 to 1995, leaving to serve a similar 
investigative role at ABC News. In December 2005, Diaz once again departed, 
this time leaving for WNYW. Another segment was "Eat at Your Own Risk", 
which highlighted unsafe conditions at New York-area restaurants. Ironically, 
the cafeteria at the CBS Broadcast Center was cited for violations by the 
New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. Violations included 
the presence of rats and roaches, as well as food temperature issues.[17] 
Despite this and other attempts at fixes, the ratings did not significantly 
improve under Doctor's watch. Doctor was criticized for airing "Shame on 
You" and "Eat at Your Own Risk" segments ahead of major stories. She also 
came under fire when channel 2 led its 11 p.m. newscast of May 24, 2005, 
with a story and exclusive video of actor Burt Reynolds slapping a CBS 
producer, while rivals WABC-TV and WNBC-TV led with an important vote in 
the U.S. House on stem cell research.[citation needed] On May 27, 2004, 
Doctor fired popular sports anchor Warner Wolf, three months before his 
contract expired, without giving Wolf a chance to say goodbye on air. This 
incident was widely panned by several newspapers, including the New York 
Daily News, and the move alienated and angered many viewers. Wolf was replaced 
by the much younger Chris Wragge, who was brought in from NBC affiliate 
KPRC-TV in Houston. On June 1, 2005, Jim Rosenfield rejoined the station 
to anchor the 5 and 11 p.m. newscasts with Roz Abrams, who joined channel 
2 the previous year after an 18-year run at WABC-TV. The son of a former 
CBS executive, Rosenfield had worked at the station from 1998 to 2000 before 
moving to WNBC (to anchor Live at Five) after a contract dispute with channel 
2. Rosenfield replaced Ernie Anastos, who moved to WNYW in July 2005.[citation 
needed] On August 22, 2005, WCBS-TV launched its new Doppler weather radar 
named "Live Doppler 2 Million". It has one million watts of power, and 
is live, compared to other dopplers in the market which are delayed by 
about 15 minutes. "Live Doppler 2 Million" was the punch line of a joke 
on an episode of Jimmy Kimmel Live! and was ridiculed on the popular Opie 
and Anthony radio show. The station renamed the radar in 2006 to "Live 
Doppler". The station also uses the VIPIR radar processing software. Coincidentally, 
transportation reporter Arthur Chi'en was fired from the station three 
months earlier after mistakenly using expletives live on the air in response 
to someone from Opie and Anthony disrupting his live report as part of 
their "Assault on the Media" contest.[citation needed] On April 14, 2006, 
Dianne Doctor left WCBS-TV. The station decided to move its news department 
in a new direction under new general manager Peter Dunn, who axed "Shame 
on You" and "Eat at Your Own Risk". Doctor reportedly did not agree with 
the new plans, and opted to leave. The station has since overhauled its 
graphics and anchor lineup, winning praise from media observers. In early 
September 2006, WCBS-TV's weather department entered into a partnership 
with The Weather Channel, with meteorologists from the cable channel often 
appearing on-air with existing WCBS-TV meteorologists. WCBS-TV also received 
information from the Weather Channel, in addition to using its radars and 
satellite imagery. The Weather Channel featured updates with WCBS for New 
York City's weather on its Evening Edition program with one of the WCBS 
meteorologists, and forecast intros on WCBS began with "now time for your 
exclusive forecast from CBS 2 and the Weather Channel." On July 7, 2008, 
this partnership ended when it was announced that the Weather Channel had 
been sold to NBCUniversal (owner of competitor WNBC).[citation needed] 
On November 6, 2006, WCBS-TV made a personnel change on its noon and 5 
p.m. newscasts. Former sports director and anchor Chris Wragge became co-anchor 
of both programs, along with newly hired Marvin L. Gittelman; both replaced 
Roz Abrams and Mary Calvi on those newscasts; Abrams' contract was allowed 
to lapse, and Calvi was reassigned to weekends as the sole evening anchor. 
Calvi co-anchored on mornings with Rob Morrison. More changes came on December 
25, 2006, as John Elliot was introduced as the new morning and noon meteorologist, 
replacing Audrey Puente, whose abrupt breach-of-contract demotion led to 
her being allowed to become the new chief meteorologist at WWOR-TV less 
than two weeks later. WCBS-TV also hired Lonnie Quinn, who had been a weatherman 
in Miami, as they phased out John Bolaris, who had rejoined WCBS in 2002. 
On June 25, 2007, Wragge and Johnson added the 11 p.m. newscast to their 
duties, trading places with Dana Tyler and Jim Rosenfield on the noon program; 
Tyler and Rosenfield continued to co-anchor the 6 p.m. newscast. Rosenfield 
left WCBS in May 2008 and was replaced with recently hired weekend anchor 
Don Dahler.[citation needed] In the February 2007 ratings period, WCBS-TV 
finished second behind WABC-TV from sign-on to sign-off – its best showing 
in 16 years, although most of its newscasts still finished in third place 
at that time. By the November 2007 sweeps period, channel 2's local evening 
newscasts had overtaken WNBC for second place (mainly due to declining 
ratings at WNBC). It was channel 2's best news performance in 12 years, 
but it still trailed WABC-TV by a fairly wide margin. On April 11, 2007, 
WCBS-TV became the third New York City television station to begin broadcasting 
its newscasts in high-definition. In May 2008, WCBS led WNBC by an even 
wider margin. However, its longtime #1 noon newscast's ratings fell behind 
WABC, the only other station to offer a noon newscast in the New York area. 
WCBS has been unable to regain the lead at noon since, although they were 
still second in New York City among the market's evening broadcasts at 
the time. WCBS elected to change the noon anchors again after approximately 
a year and put the noon broadcast in the hands of the morning news team; 
the then-current anchors were Maurice DuBois and Mary Calvi with John Elliott 
providing weather forecasts. DuBois has since switched to anchoring the 
weeknight 5 and 11 p.m. newscasts with Johnson (with Wragge moving to The 
Early Show; he later returned to anchor WCBS's 6 p.m. weekday broadcast 
with Dana Tyler) and is now partnered with Calvi weekday mornings and at 
noon. In the February 2011 Nielsen sweeps period, WCBS-TV's 11 p.m. newscast 
unseated WABC-TV for first place in total households in that timeslot. 
WABC continued to lead in the key demographics at 11 p.m. WCBS-TV quickly 
lost its lead at 11 p.m. after WABC-TV regained its status as #1 at 11 
p.m. in the May 2011 sweeps.[18] WABC-TV has since kept its #1 status at 
11 p.m. Recently, WCBS-TV has moved back to third place in ratings due 
to an increase in ratings at WNBC-TV. On September 29, 2011 WCBS-TV moved 
into a temporary set after the final newscast in the set they had been 
using for 10 years. The final newscast used in the temporary set was on 
October 20, 2011 for "CBS 2 News This Morning", on October 20, 2011, WCBS-TV 
debuted a new set on its noon newscast. The modernized set features a projection 
screen which changes backgrounds for each newscast (morning, noon and night) 
behind the anchors with blurred glass panels on both sides and the weather 
center includes additional blurring panels, plenty of monitors, an L-shaped 
desk and dimensional letter along the top of the set.[19] On September 
22, 2013 on the late newscast following Emmy Awards, WCBS introduced the 
new look for its newscasts.[20] This included a new logo with a gold "2" 
that had been seen in promos for months, new opens and an updated version 
of Enforcer. The former look was used one last time earlier that day during 
CBS 2 News Sunday Morning. On April 22, 2016, after nineteen years, WCBS-TV 
changed its logo which features a new numeric "2" in the same font used 
by sister stations WBBM-TV (Chicago), KCBS-TV (Los Angeles) and KDKA-TV 
(Pittsburgh). The logo was introduced along with an updated graphics package 
that was introduced on the April 21, 2016 edition of CBS 2 News at Noon. 
