WDAF-TV, virtual channel 4 (UHF digital channel 34), is a Fox-affiliated 
television station serving Kansas City, Missouri and Kansas City, Kansas, 
United States. The station is owned by the Tribune Broadcasting subsidiary 
of Tribune Media. WDAF-TV maintains studio and transmitter facilities located 
on Summit Street in the Signal Hill section of Kansas City, Missouri. On 
cable, WDAF-TV is available on Time Warner Cable and SureWest channel 6, 
and AT&T U-verse channel 4. WDAF-TV also serves as an alternate Fox affiliate 
for the adjacent Saint Joseph market (to the immediate north) as the station's 
transmitter produces a city-grade signal that reaches Saint Joseph proper. 
That market is primarily served by KNPN-LD (channel 26), which displaced 
WDAF-TV as the default Fox affiliate on area cable and satellite providers 
when it signed on the air on June 2, 2012[2][3] (the situation with WDAF-TV 
and KNPN differs from that of Saint Joseph's ABC affiliate KQTV (channel 
2), whose home market is alternately served by Kansas City-based ABC affiliate 
KMBC-TV (channel 9); both of those stations are carried on pay television 
providers in that market). The station first signed on the air on October 
16, 1949; it was the second television station to sign on in Missouri (after 
KSDK in St. Louis, which debuted in February 1947 as KSD-TV) and the first 
to sign on in the Kansas City market. WDAF-TV was founded by the Kansas 
City Star, which was also the founding owner of radio station WDAF (610 
AM, now KCSP; the WDAF calls on radio now reside on 106.5 FM through a 
September 2003 format change that also saw the former's country music format 
move from the AM station, which adopted a sports talk format). WDAF-TV 
is among a handful of U.S. broadcast stations that is an exception to a 
rule imposed by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), which assigns 
call signs prefixed with a "K" to television and radio stations with cities 
of license located west of the Mississippi River and broadcast call signs 
prefixed with a "W" to stations located east of the river. The anomaly 
in the case of the WDAF television and radio stations is due to the fact 
that Kansas City was originally located east of the original "K"/"W" border 
distinction defined by the FCC at the time that the WDAF call letters were 
assigned to both stations. Channel 4 originally operated as a primary affiliate 
of NBC – owing to WDAF radio's longtime relationship with the television 
network's direct predecessor, the NBC Red Network, which it had been affiliated 
with since 1925 (when the station transmitted on 680 AM) as the network's 
westernmost affiliate – but also maintained secondary affiliations with 
CBS, ABC and the DuMont Television Network. Randall Jessee served as WDAF-TV's 
first news anchor. Other notable staffers in its early years included the 
station's first weathercaster, Shelby Storck, and future Hollywood character 
actor Owen Bush, who served as an on-staff announcer during the early 1950s. 
For several years, WDAF-TV's daily sign-on and sign-off was accompanied 
by a recording of Gordon MacRae's rendition of "The Lord's Prayer." The 
station would lose affiliations with three of the networks from which it 
cherry-picked programs in the late summer of 1953, when WDAF gained its 
first commercial television competitors in the Kansas City market. Programming 
from CBS and DuMont moved to WHB-TV and KMBC-TV (channel 9; KMBC became 
the sole occupant of that channel in June 1954), which shared the two networks 
when both stations signed on under a timesharing arrangement on August 
2 of that year. Channel 4 shared the ABC affiliation with WHB/KMBC until 
September 27, when KCMO-TV (channel 5, now KCTV) signed on as the network's 
original full-time Kansas City affiliate (KMBC and KCMO would swap affiliations 
two years later in September 1955); this left channel 4 exclusively affiliated 
with NBC. Also in 1953, the United States government initiated an antitrust 
investigation against the Star over its ownership of WDAF radio and WDAF-TV; 
the investigation was reportedly opened at the behest of President Harry 
S. Truman, who had been in a long-standing feud with the newspaper over 
its opposition to the Missouri native's presidency. The investigation culminated 
in the Star being indicted on charges that it engaged in monopolistic practices 
in its sale of advertising for the newspaper and its television and radio 
stations; when the case was taken to court in 1955, just prior to the close 
of the Truman administration, a federal grand jury found the Star guilty 
at the end of the one-month restraint-of-trade trial. After attempts to 
appeal the ruling failed, the Star signed a consent decree in 1957 that 
required it to stop combining advertising and subscription rates and sell 
off WDAF television and radio. On May 18, 1958, the WDAF stations were 
sold to National-Missouri Broadcasters, the broadcasting division of National 
Theaters. On July 13, 1960, National-Missouri merged with Buffalo, New 
York-based Transcontinent Broadcasting. Under Transcontinent ownership, 
the two stations were joined by an additional sister radio station, WDAF-FM 
(102.1, now KCKC). Transcontinent merged with Cincinnati, Ohio-based Taft 
Broadcasting on February 19, 1964; the transaction was finalized on April 
1, 1964. During its first four decades with NBC, WDAF-TV pre-empted moderate 
amounts of the network's programming, usually consisting of some daytime 
shows and an occasional prime time program. Among the notable programs 
that were pre-empted by channel 4 include Days of Our Lives (which was 
pre-empted by the station from its November 1965 debut until 1971), Dragnet 
(which was dropped by WDAF-TV after the police procedural's first season, 
before returning at the start of its third season in September 1969, airing 
on delay on Saturday afternoons; the station eventually aired the show 
in pattern on Thursdays towards the end of its run) and I Dream of Jeannie 
(which the station began pre-empting partway through its first season in 
1966, before it resumed clearance of the show in the fall of 1968).[4] 
Although NBC had long been less tolerant of pre-emptions of its programming 
than the other broadcast networks, it usually did not raise objections 
to those made by WDAF-TV; between 1969 and 1971, most of the NBC shows 
that the station chose to pre-empt aired instead on independent station 
KCIT-TV (channel 50, now KPXE-TV; the KCIT calls now reside on a Fox-affiliated 
television station in Amarillo, Texas). On July 13, 1984, WDAF-TV became 
one of the first 20 NBC stations to receive the network's programs via 
satellite transmission. In 1986, it also became the first television station 
in Kansas City to broadcast in stereo. On October 12, 1987, Taft Broadcasting 
was restructured into Great American Communications following the completion 
of a hostile takeover of the group by Taft investors. By that year, WDAF-TV 
had overtaken KMBC as the dominant station in Kansas City, as was the trend 
during this period at many NBC-affiliated stations. In December 1993, Great 
American Communications underwent another financial restructuring following 
the company's filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Great American then decided 
to put most of its television stations up for sale. On May 5, 1994, Great 
American Communications (which would later be renamed Citicasters following 
the completion of its restructuring) agreed to sell WDAF-TV and three other 
television stations – CBS affiliate KSAZ-TV in Phoenix, and ABC affiliates 
WBRC in Birmingham and WGHP in High Point, North Carolina – to New World 
Communications – for $350 million in cash and $10 million in share warrants;[5][6][7] 
Great American Communications, meanwhile, retained ownership of WDAF radio 
and sister station KYYS (102.1 FM, now KCKC) until the renamed Citicasters 
merged with Jacor on February 13, 1996 in a $770 million deal (due to FCC 
rules at the time that restricted broadcasting companies from owning more 
than twelve television stations nationwide, WBRC – also due to the agency's 
prohibition of television station duopolies; New World having purchased 
Birmingham's NBC affiliate, WVTM-TV, through the Argyle deal – and WGHP 
were placed in a blind trust and then sold directly to Fox's owned-and-operated 
station group, Fox Television Stations, in January 1995).[8][9] On May 
23, 1994, as part of an overall deal in which network parent News Corporation 
also purchased a 20% equity interest in the group, New World signed a long-term 
affiliation agreement with Fox to switch thirteen television stations – 
five that New World had already owned and eight that the company was in 
the process of acquiring through separate deals with Great American and 
Argyle Television Holdings (which New World purchased one week later in 
a purchase option-structured deal for $717 million), including WDAF – to 
the network. The stations involved in the agreement – all of which were 
affiliated with one of the three major broadcast networks (CBS, ABC and 
NBC) – would become Fox affiliates once individual affiliation contracts 
with each of the stations' existing network partners expired.[10][11] The 
deal was motivated by the National Football League (NFL)'s awarding of 
the rights to the National Football Conference (NFC) television package 
to Fox on December 18, 1993, in which the conference rights moved to the 
network effective with the 1994 NFL season, ending a 38-year relationship 
with CBS.[12] At the time the agreement was signed, the affiliation contracts 
of WDAF-TV and CBS affiliate WJW in Cleveland were up for renewal as they 
were set to expire on or shortly after September 1, 1994. As a result of 
channel 4's pending switch to Fox, the short span until the end of its 
contract with WDAF gave NBC only five months to find another station to 
replace WDAF-TV as its Kansas City affiliate, resulting in the network 
entering into negotiations with other area stations in the immediate weeks 
after the Fox-New World deal was announced. NBC first entered into discussions 
with KCTV (channel 5) for a contract; this led CBS to approach that station's 
owner, the Meredith Corporation, on a proposal to switch two other Meredith-owned 
stations – NBC affiliate WNEM-TV in Bay City, Michigan and independent 
station KPHO in Phoenix – to that network as a condition of keeping the 
CBS affiliation on KCTV. KMBC-TV was automatically eliminated as an option 
as it was in the middle of a long-term affiliation agreement between ABC 
and that station's owner, Hearst Broadcasting; this left the only viable 
option for NBC to reach an affiliation with being existing Fox station 
KSHB-TV (channel 41), which – through its owner, Scripps-Howard Broadcasting 
– agreed to affiliate with the network on August 1, 1994 on the condition 
that it carry as much local news programming as WDAF had aired as an NBC 
affiliate (Scripps excluded KSHB from the affiliation deal it struck with 
ABC around the same time – which also renewed affiliation contracts with 
WEWS-TV in Cleveland and WXYZ-TV in Detroit, both of which were approached 
by CBS to replace affiliates that displaced it through the Fox-New World 
deal – due to KMBC's existing agreement with the network).[13] New World 
finalized its purchase of WDAF-TV and KSAZ on September 9, 1994; WDAF-TV 
switched to Fox three days later on September 12, ending its affiliation 
with NBC after 45 years, becoming the second New World station to change 
its network affiliation as a result of the group's agreement with Fox (the 
first to switch was WJW, which traded affiliations with Cleveland's original 
Fox affiliate, WOIO nine days earlier on September 3). The move of the 
NBC affiliation from WDAF to KSHB on that date consequently ended channel 
4's status as the unofficial "home" station of the Kansas City Chiefs (ironically 
in other New World markets, mainly where it bought or already owned stations 
previously affiliated with CBS, the affected stations continued their relationships 
with local NFL teams when Fox assumed the NFC rights). WDAF-TV had been 
airing most of the Chiefs' games since 1965, when NBC assumed rights to 
the American Football League (which became the American Football Conference 
upon the merger of the AFL and the NFL in 1970). Of the former New World 
stations that switched to Fox, WDAF-TV is one of two affiliates that is 
located in an AFC market (the other being WJW), and the only one involved 
in the deal that was an NBC affiliate prior to switching networks (WVTM-TV, 
now owned by Hearst Television and ironically now a sister station to WDAF 
rival KMBC-TV, and KNSD in San Diego, both of which New World later sold 
to NBC outright, remained with the network) – the other New World stations 
that joined Fox were previously affiliated with either CBS or ABC. As with 
most of the other New World-owned stations affected by the affiliation 
agreement with Fox, WDAF-TV retained its existing branding – in its instance, 
"Newschannel 4", which the station adopted as a universal brand in April 
1992 as an NBC affiliate – upon the affiliation switch; branding references 
to Fox, both visually and verbally, were limited in most on-air imaging, 
with the exception of on-air IDs (which used the tagline "in Kansas City, 
Newschannel 4 is Fox") that aired until January 1997. In addition to expanding 
its local news programming, the station added additional syndicated talk 
shows as well as some reality series to round out its schedule. On July 
17, 1996, News Corporation announced that it would acquire New World in 
an all-stock transaction worth $2.48 billion, with the latter company's 
ten Fox affiliates being folded into the former's Fox Television Stations 
subsidiary, making them all owned-and-operated stations of the network 
(the New World Communications name continued as a licensing purpose corporation 
for WDAF-TV and its sister stations until 2007 under Fox, and from 2009 
to 2011 under Local TV ownership);[14][15] the purchase was finalized on 
January 22, 1997, making WDAF-TV the first owned-and-operated station of 
a major network in the Kansas City market since DuMont briefly operated 
KCTY (channel 25) from December 1953 until it shut down that station in 
February 1954.[16] On January 26, coinciding with Fox's telecast of Super 
Bowl XXXI, WDAF-TV subsequently changed its branding from "Newschannel 
4" to "Fox 4" under the network's branding conventions (with its newscasts 
concurrently rebranding as Fox 4 News).[16] On December 22, 2007, Fox sold 
WDAF-TV and eight other owned-and-operated stations – WJW, WBRC, WGHP, 
KTVI in St. Louis, WITI in Milwaukee, WHBQ-TV in Memphis, KDVR in Denver 
and KSTU in Salt Lake City – to Local TV (a broadcast holding company operated 
by private equity firm Oak Hill Capital Partners that was formed on May 
7 of that year to assume ownership of the broadcasting division of The 
New York Times Company) for $1.1 billion; the sale was finalized on July 
14, 2008.[17][18][19] On July 1, 2013, the Tribune Company (which in 2008, 
had formed a joint management agreement involving its Tribune Broadcasting 
subsidiary and Local TV to operate stations owned by both companies and 
provide web hosting, technical and engineering services to those run by 
the latter group) acquired the Local TV stations for $2.75 billion;[20] 
the sale was completed on December 27.[21][22] The station's digital channel 
is multiplexed: On February 13, 2011, through an agreement between network 
owner Tribune Broadcasting and then-WDAF-owner Local TV resulting from 
the companies' existing management agreement, the station launched a digital 
subchannel on virtual channel 4.2, which served as a charter affiliate 
of the Antenna TV classic television network (which had its official nationwide 
launch just over one month earlier on January 1).[24][25] On June 22, 2015, 
WDAF launched a tertiary subchannel on virtual channel 4.3 to serve as 
an affiliate of This TV (which is also part-owned by Tribune, in conjunction 
with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer). The network had been absent from the Kansas 
City market for five months prior to WDAF's assumption of the affiliation, 
as KCWE ended its five-year relationship with This TV on January 2, in 
order to affiliate its second digital subchannel (29.2) with competing 
film-focused multicast network Movies! (which is part-owned by former This 
TV co-founder Weigel Broadcasting). On September 23, 2005, WDAF-TV's digital 
signal was upgraded to full-power high definition, as its HD signal strength 
was increased from 1.2 kW to 1000 kW. WDAF-TV shut down its analog signal, 
over VHF channel 4, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power 
television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital 
broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal remained 
on its pre-transition UHF channel 34.[26] Through the use of PSIP, digital 
television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former 
VHF analog channel 4. Syndicated programs broadcast by WDAF-TV as of September 
2015[update] include Crime Watch Daily, Celebrity Name Game, Family Feud, 
Judge Judy and Wheel of Fortune (the latter of which WDAF-TV acquired from 
KSHB in 2012, replacing Access Hollywood in the prime access slot[27]).[28] 
WDAF-TV currently carries the majority of the Fox network schedule; however, 
it delays the network's Saturday late night block (currently, as of March 
2016, consisting of the half-hour sketch comedy Party Over Here and reruns 
of Fox prime time sitcoms) by a half-hour in order to air its 10:00 p.m. 
newscast; in addition, since the program's move from Fox Sports 1 to Fox 
in September 2015, WDAF is one of several Fox affiliates that has declined 
carriage of the Sunday pre-game show Fox NFL Kickoff during the NFL regular 
season (the local rights to Fox NFL Kickoff are currently held by MyNetworkTV 
affiliate KSMO-TV (channel 62), which airs the program in its network-recommended 
time slot). Channel 4 has only aired Fox's prime time, late night, news 
and sports programming since it joined the network in September 1994, with 
the only content it has aired involving Fox's children's programming having 
been of fall preview specials and network promotions for those blocks that 
aired within the network's prime time lineup for the final twelve years 
that Fox carried programming aimed at that demographic. As with most of 
its sister stations under its former New World ownership (with the subverted 
exception of St. Louis sister station KTVI), WDAF-TV has always declined 
carriage of Fox's children's programming; it opted not to run the Fox Kids 
weekday and Saturday blocks when it affiliated with the network, airing 
children's programs acquired via syndication on Saturday mornings instead 
(the pre-emptions of Fox Kids by the New World stations led the network 
to change its carriage policies to allow Fox stations uninterested in carrying 
the block the right of first refusal to transfer the local rights to another 
station, restructuring Fox Kids as a network-syndicated program package; 
by 2001, affiliates were no longer required to run the Fox Kids lineup 
even if Fox had not secured a substitute carrier). Fox Kids aired locally 
on KSMO-TV from 1994 to 1998; KCWE (channel 29, now a CW affiliate) from 
1998 to 1999; and finally – along with its successor blocks FoxBox and 
4Kids TV – on KMCI (channel 38) from 1999 to 2008. Fox ended its network-supplied 
children's programming on December 28, 2008, replacing it thereafter with 
the paid programming block Weekend Marketplace,[29] which is not carried 
by any Kansas City area station. On September 13, 2014, WDAF began carrying 
Xploration Station, a live-action educational program block distributed 
by Steve Rotfeld Productions that is syndicated primarily to Fox stations, 
on Saturday mornings through an agreement involving Tribune's Fox-affiliated 
stations.[30][31] As an NBC affiliate, WDAF-TV served as the over-the-air 
flagship station of the Kansas City Royals from 1979 to 1992; this relationship 
continued long after many Big Three-affiliated stations discontinued regular 
coverage of local sporting events. Since Fox obtained the partial (now 
exclusive) over-the-air network television rights to Major League Baseball 
in 1996, WDAF has carried certain Royals games that have been regionally 
televised (and, since 2013, select national telecasts scheduled during 
prime time) by the network during the league's regular season and postseason; 
notable Royals telecasts that the station has aired during its tenure with 
Fox have included the team's World Series appearances in 2014 and 2015, 
the latter of which saw the franchise win its first national championship 
title since 1985. The station also broadcast Kansas City Chiefs preseason 
games from 1997 to 1999; with WDAF's acquisition of preseason rights, the 
on-air production presentation of the locally exclusive telecasts was upgraded 
to network quality standards by way of its then-ownership under Fox. In 
addition, since Fox obtained the broadcast rights to the NFL in 1994, WDAF 
has carried select Chiefs games that the network airs on a regional basis, 
primarily home contests against NFC opponents (Chiefs regular season games 
televised over-the-air locally are otherwise split between KCTV, through 
CBS's rights to the team's home conference, the American Football Conference 
(AFC), other than those from 2014 onward that have been subject to cross-flexing, 
allowing Fox to acquire the rights for its regional broadcasts; and KSHB, 
for non-preseason games that NBC selects to air as part of its Sunday Night 
Football package). WDAF-TV presently broadcasts 59½ hours of locally produced 
newscasts each week (with ten hours on weekdays, 4½ hours on Saturdays 
and five hours on Sundays); in regards to the number of hours devoted to 
news programming, it is the highest local newscast output among the Kansas 
City market's commercial television stations. WDAF-TV's Sunday 5:00 p.m. 
newscast is subject to pre-emption due to network sports coverage, as is 
standard with Fox stations that carry early-evening newscasts on weekends 
(though the Saturday 5:00 p.m. newscast is usually delayed to 6:00 p.m. 
during baseball or college football coverage). The station operates a Hummer 
called "Storm Fox" that is used to cover severe weather events. Dating 
back to its NBC affiliation, channel 4 has long battled KMBC-TV (and at 
times, KCTV as well) for the most-watched newscast in the Kansas City market. 
During the late 1970s and 1980s, WDAF-TV's newscasts placed second behind 
KMBC; however, coinciding with the rise of NBC's ratings fortunes during 
that period, it ended the latter decade in first place, overtaking KCTV. 
In 1982, WDAF-TV became the first television station in Kansas City to 
use a helicopter for newsgathering; the helicopter (originally known as 
"NewsChopper 4" until 1999, and later "Sky Fox" thereafter) was used to 
provide aerial coverage of breaking news and severe weather events as well 
as for traffic reports until station management grounded the helicopter 
on August 31, 2009. Also in 1982, WDAF began "Thursday’s Child," a weekly 
segment on its 10:00 p.m. newscast highlighting children seeking adoptive 
families, in conjunction with the Love Fund for Children, a charity founded 
through a $1,200 endowment from several WDAF-TV employees. When WDAF-TV 
adopted the "Newschannel 4" brand in April 1992, the station also implemented 
the "24-Hour News Source" concept (enforced in the promotional slogan used 
by the station until 1999, "Kansas City's 24-Hour Newschannel"), involving 
the production of 30-second news updates that aired at or near the top 
of each hour during local commercial break inserts – even during prime 
time network and overnight programming – as well as five-second end-of-break 
weather updates (consisting of an image of the station's Doppler radar, 
usually accompanied by a brief voiceover by one of the station's meteorologists 
illustrating the short-term forecast), in addition to the station's long-form 
newscasts in regularly scheduled time slots. After WDAF became a Fox station 
in September 1994, the station shifted its programming focus heavily towards 
local news, increasing its output from about 30 hours a week to nearly 
50 hours. The station retained all of the newscasts that existed during 
its final years as an NBC affiliate; however, to compensate for the absence 
of daily national newscasts and a third hour of prime time network programming 
on Fox's schedule (as well as to fill time slots vacated by the departures 
of Today and NBC Nightly News through the discontinuance of the NBC affiliation), 
WDAF expanded its weekday morning newscast from one to three hours (with 
the addition of a two-hour extension from 7:00 to 9:00 a.m.), and bridged 
the separate 5:00 and 6:00 p.m. newscasts on Monday through Friday nights 
to form a 90-minute early-evening news block (by adding a half-hour newscast 
at 5:30). As Fox does not provide any prime time programming during that 
hour, channel 4 also launched an hour-long prime time newscast at 9:00 p.m. 
– originally titled Newschannel 4 Primetime until January 1997, when it 
was renamed Fox 4 News at 9:00 – to serve as a lead-in into the existing 
10:00 p.m. newscast[32] (WDAF is one of several Fox stations that offer 
newscasts in both the final hour of prime time and the traditional late 
news timeslot, one of the few affiliated with the network that runs a nightly 
newscast in the latter slot and one of the few to continue its Big Three-era 
late-evening newscast after switching to Fox). The station retained the 
"24-Hour News Source" format after the affiliation switch, and continued 
to offer news updates on an hourly basis during commercial breaks until 
it discontinued the concept in May 1999. Not long after WDAF-TV switched 
to Fox, KMBC made a short resurgence to overtake it for first place among 
the market's local television newscasts, which further intensified the 
ratings rivalry between the two stations. WDAF-TV's newscasts have rotated 
between first and second place with either KMBC or KCTV in various time 
slots since the late 1990s, with the station's strongest ratings occurring 
in the morning and at 9:00 p.m., where WDAF regularly finishes at #1 (in 
time periods where that station does not have an absolute hold in that 
position, WDAF competes for second place with CBS affiliate KCTV). In February 
1996, WDAF-TV reformatted its 5:30 p.m. newscast as Your World Tonight, 
a program focusing primarily on national and international news headlines 
that was modeled similarly to the national news programs on ABC, CBS and 
NBC (as with the national newscasts that Your World Tonight competed directly 
against, the program maintained a single-anchor format, with Phil Witt 
– who joined WDAF in 1979 as a weekend evening anchor/reporter, before 
being promoted to main co-anchor of the weekday evening newscasts in 1982 
– at the helm); the program – as was the case with WDAF's newscasts as 
a whole since the September 1994 switch to Fox – initially relied mainly 
on external video feeds from CNN Newsource and, beginning that August with 
the associated launch of Fox News Channel, added content sourced from Fox's 
in-house affiliate video service Fox News Edge. The concept was not successful, 
and the 5:30 p.m. broadcast was retooled as a traditional local newscast 
on January 6, 1997.[33] In 2003, WDAF-TV launched an investigative reporting 
unit, the "Fox 4 Problem Solvers", which report on investigations centering 
on businesses that have ripped off local consumers and uncovers various 
scams targeting consumers. In April 2007, fellow Fox affiliate KTMJ-CA 
in Topeka, Kansas began simulcasting the 7:00 to 9:00 a.m. block of WDAF-TV's 
weekday morning newscast and its nightly 9:00 p.m. newscast (ironically, 
the over-the-air signals of WDAF-TV and several other Kansas City area 
stations adequately cover most of the nearby Topeka market due to the close 
proximity of the two markets). The simulcasts were dropped in November 
2008, at which time, as a result of KTMJ's purchase by New Vision Television, 
they were replaced with locally based newscasts produced by NBC-affiliated 
sister station KSNT. WDAF-TV became the fourth (and last) television station 
in the Kansas City market to begin broadcasting its local newscasts in 
high definition on October 12, 2010.[34] On March 24, 2011, the station 
expanded its weekday morning newscast to five hours, with the addition 
of an hour at 9:00 a.m.;[35] then on April 11, it debuted a 10:30 p.m. 
newcast on Sunday through Friday nights, becoming the first Fox station 
(and one of only a handful of stations in the Central and Mountain time 
zones) to expand its 10:00 p.m. newscast to one hour.[36] On October 3, 
2011, WDAF-TV expanded its weekday morning newscast to 5½ hours, with a 
