Wendell Smith (March 23, 1914 – November 26, 1972) was an African American 
sportswriter who was influential in the choice of Jackie Robinson to become 
the first African American player in Major League Baseball in the 20th 
century. In 1993 Smith was named the winner of the J. G. Taylor Spink Award, 
which was awarded at the 1994 Baseball Hall of Fame induction ceremonies. 
A Detroit native, Smith graduated from West Virginia State College where 
he pitched on the baseball team. One day after winning a game, a major 
league scout approached him and said that he wished that he could sign 
him, but couldn't due to baseball's color barrier, and instead signed the 
opposing pitcher. Thereafter, Smith promised himself that he'd do whatever 
he could to see an African-American play major league baseball. He also 
became the sports editor for the college's newspaper his junior year. He 
began his professional writing career in 1937 with the Pittsburgh Courier, 
then the most popular paper within the black community in the country.[1] 
He started as a sports writer and then a sports editor the year after. 
He covered the Homestead Grays and Pittsburgh Crawfords of baseball's Negro 
Leagues for the Courier.[2] Smith also petitioned the Baseball Writers' 
Association of America for membership but was turned down because he was 
with the Courier and not one of the white-owned papers. Smith is credited 
with recommending Jackie Robinson to Brooklyn Dodgers general manager Branch 
Rickey who was searching for the individual with strong character to successfully 
execute the integration of baseball. The Courier offered to pay for Smith 
to travel with Robinson, who had to stay in separate hotels from his teammates 
due to segregation policies prevalent at the time. Smith traveled with 
Robinson in the minors in 1946 and with the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947.[3] 
In 1948 Smith released his book, Jackie Robinson: My Own Story. Later Smith 
moved on to Chicago and joined the white-owned Chicago Herald-American. 
Smith left his baseball beat and covered mostly boxing for the American. 
In 1948, his application to join the BBWAA was approved, and he became 
the first African American member of the organization, though he would 
become the second member of the BBWAA behind Sam Lacey. Smith moved to 
television in 1964 when he joined Chicago television station WGN as a sports 
anchor, though he continued to write a weekly column for the Chicago Sun-Times. 
Smith died of pancreatic cancer at age 58 in 1972, just a month after Robinson. 
Coincidentally, Smith, too ill to attend Robinson's funeral, wrote his 
obituary.[4] In 1993, he was a posthumous recipient of the J. G. Taylor 
Spink Award for excellence in journalism. In 1994 Smith was inducted into 
The Baseball Hall of Fame. His widow Wyonella Smith donated his papers 
to the Hall of Fame's archives in 1996, providing invaluable research material 
on the subject of baseball's integration. DePaul University and the University 
of Notre Dame have presented the Wendell Smith Award to the best player 
of each game between the schools' men's basketball teams since the 1972–73 
season.[5] In 2014, Smith was the recipient of sports journalism's prestigious 
Red Smith Award. Andre Holland portrayed Smith in the 2013 film 42, which 
tells the story of Jackie Robinson's selection to play for the Dodgers, 
