Westfield State University (also known as Westfield State and formerly 
known as Westfield Normal School, Westfield State Teachers College, and 
Westfield College) is a comprehensive, coeducational, four-year public 
university in Westfield, Massachusetts. It was founded in 1838 by noted 
educator and social reformer Horace Mann as the first public co-educational 
college in America without barrier to race, gender, or economic class. 
Westfield State is located 45 miles (72 km) from Hartford, and 90 miles 
(140 km) from Boston, both of which have international airports. The nearest 
bus and train station is in Springfield. Approximately 50% of students 
have a car on campus. There are 13 other colleges and universities in proximity 
to the campus. Westfield State University’s main 256-acre (1.04 km2) campus 
is located in a suburban neighborhood along Western Avenue and accessible 
via the Pioneer Valley Transit Authority bus system, which is free to on-campus 
residents. The Main Campus is known for its centralized large campus green, 
tall pines, flowering trees, and seasonal landscaping. Nine residential 
halls, five academic buildings, one dining hall, an interfaith center, 
a power plant, the campus center and library encircle the green, where 
intramural sports and recreational activities are common. Adjacent to Overlook 
Drive is the Woodward Center (athletic facilities) and The Horace Mann 
Center (administrative and academic space). Across from the Horace Mann 
Center is the 300-acre (1.2 km2) Stanley Park, which offers many points 
of interest including a duck pond, rose gardens, soccer and lacrosse fields, 
hiking trails, a picnic area, and a wildlife sanctuary to name a few. The 
park also offers wireless internet access and is often used by the students. 
As a major initiative, the university has begun establishing a presence 
in downtown Westfield that is a five-minute drive from the campus. Lansdowne 
Place is now housing upperclassmen at 38 Thomas Street and the Westfield 
State University Downtown Art Gallery has featured a variety of art exhibitions, 
since opening in the fall of 2008. Westfield State University has a long 
and distinguished history that reflects the history of education in America. 
Retired WSU history professor, Robert T. Brown, wrote the first scholarly 
history of the Westfield Normal School, 1839-1914. "The Rise and Fall of 
the People’s Colleges" was published in 1988 by the Institute for Massachusetts 
Studies in Westfield. The following information is adapted from Brown’s 
work. In Colonial America, school children would often spend more time 
working on their family farms than in the classrooms. When they did go 
to school, they were taught by very young schoolmasters, who were not well-educated. 
Religious leaders argued that nothing could be done to improve schools 
until a better class of teachers were available and until teaching had 
become a profession like that of the ministry or medicine. There also had 
to be a distinct way of training them. Educational inadequacies and concerns 
for the welfare of young children reached its peak in the early 19th century 
with reformers noting that before teachers could be improved, training 
schools and methodology of teaching had to be established. As early as 
1784, New York State created a Board of Regents to improve the new country’s 
schools and by 1795 provided for an annual appropriation of $50,000 to 
be allocated to school districts. In Vermont in 1823, the first teachers’ 
seminary was opened in Concord, which was later moved to Andover, Massachusetts. 
The Swiss educator Pestalozzi developed a way for teachers to study children 
and the learning process. This type of teaching was embraced by France 
and Prussia where schools for the training of teachers had been established. 
In France, they were called “normal” schools—for the basic norms of teaching. 
In 1835, the Massachusetts Legislature adopted this view and created the 
Common School Fund, whose monies were administered by the Board of Education. 
Horace Mann, the Secretary of the Board of Higher Education, who from 1837 
to 1848 was in charge of most everything to do with education in the Commonwealth, 
began a statewide public speaking tour to galvanize popular support for 
“normal schools.” Relaying his vision of how education would enhance economic 
opportunity, provide stability and create law and order, Mann spoke to 
the general public, parents, the working class, and the wealthy and preached 
to the religious leaders. He emphasized how education would be “a social 
equalizer” and turn unruly masses of children into civilized individuals. 
In 1838, under Mann’s aggressive leadership, state funds were appropriated 
to match a $10,000 gift from Edmund Dwight of Boston to establish in Massachusetts 
the first state-supported institutions in the United States for the training 
of teachers for the “common schools.” He chose the sites of the schools, 
hired the staff, and outlined the curriculum. Religious leaders played 
a strong role in Mann’s mission. Reverend Brooks met with Edmund Dwight, 
who was born in Springfield and who was one of the leading men of the Boston 
establishment. A newly appointed member of the Massachusetts Board of Education, 
Dwight had made his fortune in industry and was committed to many of the 
evangelical reformist principles. In March 1838, Dwight approached Mann 
with an offer. He would donate $10,000 to improve the preparation of teachers 
if the legislature would match the sum. Mann quickly contacted the members 
of the legislature and won the acceptance and on April 19, 1838, Governor 
Edward Everett signed the resolve for a three-year experiment in qualifying 
teachers for the common schools. On December 28, 1838, the Board established 
two schools—an all-female school in Lexington, an institution which eventually 
became Framingham State University, and another in Barre, which became 
the first coeducational public training school in the nation and the forerunner 
of Westfield State University. A third school opened in Bridgewater in 
1840, the forerunner to Bridgewater State University. The first class in 
Barre consisted of 12 women and 8 men, who passed the entrance exams and 
were admitted. A thriving village of 2,700 people, the town of Barre had 
a strong industrial base of cotton and woolen mills, a gunpowder mill and 
its biggest employer, a factory that made palm leaf hats. While Barre was 
able to live up to their financial agreement to the school, townsfolk were 
not prepared for the influx of normal school students and complaints were 
filed with the Board of Education. When the principal of the school’s health 
broke down, he missed the winter term in November 1841, and died soon after. 
This led to a failure of the Barre experiment and the school closed its 
doors in 1841. Leading the effort to have the school reopened and relocated 
was Reverend Emerson Davis, pastor of First Congregational Church in Westfield 
and William Gelson Bates, a Westfield attorney and a member of the Massachusetts 
House of Representatives. In September 1844, Bates was instrumental in 
turning the tide within the Boston legislative bodies to have the school 
reopened and moved to Westfield. (Davis Hall, a dormitory, and Bates Hall 
an academic building are named in their honor.) One of the many arguments 
for the school to move to Westfield was the prosperity of the community. 
Westfield was a thriving industrial community and the largest settlement 
between Springfield and Albany. A canal connecting Westfield to New Haven, 
which was later replaced by a railroad, tied Westfield to Boston. It was 
also at this time that Westfield flourished as a center for the whip making 
industry and boasted successful tobacco growing and cigar-rolling businesses, 
powder mills, brick-yards and even an organ manufacturer. It was the ideal 
location for a normal school. On September 4, 1844 the Barre school was 
reopened in Westfield and renamed the Westfield Normal School.[2] In September 
1846, a Greek revival building opened at the corner of Washington and School 
Streets to house the school. Between 1854 and 1856, William Harvey Wells 
was principal. Wells had already established his reputation in educational 
reform and was the author of a major text on grammar and a national figure 
in philology. During his tenure, the Westfield Normal School began to grow 
and by 1856 there were 20 students in attendance. John W. Dickinson, a 
four-year faculty member and strong advocate for educational reform, was 
principal from 1856 to 1877. He believed that teachers had a responsibility 
to mold students and lead them on a path of perfection, of life and citizenship. 
An advocate of child health including nutrition and exercise, Wells embraced 
the individualism of each student and often lectured on the nature of education. 
During this time, the school was a two-year school that also offered an 
additional two years of advanced studies. (Dickinson Hall is the dormitory 
named in his honor.) The Civil War and the post-war financial panic of 
1873, which ushered in an agricultural depression until the end of the 
century, had a tremendous impact on Westfield. The war caused the withdrawal 
of male students and an influx of black students, and soon it was established 
that the school could be multi-racial. Booker T. Washington utilized the 
Massachusetts normal schools as a place of instruction for the most promising 
pupils at Tuskegee Institute. His chief organizer in the North was Samuel 
Courtney, who attended Westfield Normal School from 1882 to 1885 and became 
a practicing physician in Boston and a respected member of the Boston School 
Committee. (WSU now has a dormitory named in Courtney’s honor.) By 1887 
the school building had deteriorated and a request by then principal, James 
Greenough, for a new building was proposed. This aroused the competitive 
interests of surrounding towns. Northampton and Springfield proposed relocating 
the school to their areas in hopes of giving their towns an aura of prestige 
and the economic benefits. Their efforts failed and a new sandstone three-story 
building was erected on Court Street in 1892, heralding a new era in the 
history of normal schools. The new school featured laboratories for scientific 
teaching. The first floor housed a training school that began with two 
kindergartens and a primary class. By 1898 it had grown into a school with 
nine grades and a kindergarten that educated 165 students. It was at this 
time that money was appropriated for improvements in other normal schools 
throughout Massachusetts and new schools were built. Increasing the number 
of schools by two-thirds initially reduced the enrollments of the rest 
of the schools and by 1874 Westfield’s out-of-county enrollment vanished. 
Within a few years, the state enacted tough new entrance requirements. 
These new admission standards and modifications of the curriculum made 
it difficult for students to gain admission, eventually resulting in declining 
enrollment, plummeting it to the lowest enrollment since the school moved 
from Barre. The faculty revolted, resulting in the resignation of Principal 
Greenough. When Charles S. Chapin arrived at Westfield as principal in 
1896, he immediately began rebuilding the school and secured an excellent 
faculty, including noted marine biologist Charles Branch Wilson, for whom 
the university’s Wilson Hall is named. By the time Chapin left in 1901, 
the student body had doubled in size. In 1900, a new training school was 
built on the site of the old normal school building. A full nine grades 
plus kindergarten would be housed in this building, run and staffed by 
the principal of the normal school. For the first time in the history of 
Westfield there would be ample opportunity to practice what the students 
had been learning. In 1901, Clarence Brodeur became principal and served 
for 22 years. At the time, nearly half the students were commuters on the 
trolley line. No males were enrolled from 1897 to 1938. Most faculty earned 
only about $1,000 a year and faculty came and went due to the low salary. 
During this time the Massachusetts Legislature, in response to an outcry 
for public education to meet the needs of modern industrial and social 
conditions, created a Commissioner of Education position. The Commissioner 
was empowered to implement a program, which would make the normal schools 
responsive to industrial needs. Subsequently, many normal schools throughout 
Massachusetts introduced manual training including household arts, gardening, 
basket-making, chicken raising and the commercial arts. The resulting emasculation 
of the Westfield Normal School’s academic program in 1915 included reducing 
the nine science courses to only one, the abolishment of the four-year 
program, and having only 20 courses remaining in the curriculum: educational 
methods, sewing, physical education, penmanship, and methods courses. Money 
dissipated and the maintenance of the buildings started to decline. By 
the time Charles Russell became principal in 1925, the school could not 
afford to have its catalog professionally printed and the Court Street 
building was unsafe for habitation. Russell’s accomplishments are many. 
He expanded community outreach, brought groups of visiting educators from 
abroad to the school to observe American methods and encouraged the faculty 
to think and act as professionals. In order to prepare students to teach 
at the junior high school level, he expanded the course of study from two 
to three years. When all the normal schools were renamed state teachers 
colleges in 1932, it made it possible for them to now legally offer a four-year 
college degree. Unfortunately, this giant step enhanced the vulnerability 
of the school’s dependency on the economy and as the Depression deepened, 
teachers lost their jobs and enrollment declined. Edward Scanlon, for whom 
the university’s Scanlon Hall is named, arrived on the verge of Westfield’s 
100-year celebration and began his 22 years of fighting off legislative 
attempts to close the school. In 1928, Governor Leverett Saltonstall proposed 
closing Westfield and three other schools, arguing that there were more 
graduates than there were teaching jobs available. His proposal did not 
pass the legislative process, but it was recognized that fewer teachers 
were needed. This led to a proposal that Westfield become a vocational 
training center offering courses for machinists, toolmakers, dental and 
medical technicians. This proposed change died in the legislature. When 
World War II broke out, the reputation of the whole normal school system 
sunk so low that Life magazine identified Massachusetts’ public higher 
education system as one of the worst in the nation. Again, there were legislative 
attempts to solve the problem by trying to close some of the schools, Westfield 
among them. Again there was rallying of supporters, which defeated closure 
plans in the House. Yet in June 1953, the Westfield City Council voted 
to convey to the Commonwealth for $1 a tract of some 26 acres (110,000 m2) 
of city-owned land in upper Western Avenue as the site for a new $3,025,000 
Westfield State Teachers College. Instrumental in this effort was State 
Representative Anthony J. Parenzo (for whom Parenzo Hall was named) who 
led the effort to acquire the land for the campus. Three buildings were 
constructed, the main school building (today Parenzo Hall), a dormitory 
(today's Scanlon Hall), and a central heating plant (today the maintenance 
building.) The college opened its new home in 1956 with nearly four-hundred 
students. The post-war economy buried money problems. For the next 20 years, 
Westfield would continue to expand its offerings and on May 24, 1968, the 
legislature voted to change the names of state teachers colleges yet again 
to recognize such growth. For the next 42 years the institution would function 
as Westfield State College.[3] In July 2010, both the Massachusetts House 
of Representatives and Senate voted to change the state college system 
to a state university system, and to rename the six state colleges to state 
universities including Westfield. The measure was signed into law by Massachusetts 
Governor Deval Patrick on July 28, 2010.[4] Westfield State’s Office of 
International Education is fostering partnerships with institutions of 
higher learning throughout the world in order to expand international study 
and exchange opportunities. New academic majors and a program of campus 
improvements to the University’s infrastructure has been undertaken including 
renovations and new construction. Mod Hall, an office and classroom building, 
was added to the campus as well as new suite-style residence hall, University 
Hall. Plans are underway for construction of an academic building to be 
connected to Wilson Hall, which is set to break ground in September 2014. 
Westfield State University ranks first among Massachusetts state university 
peers according to criteria reviewed in the 2011 edition of “Best Colleges” 
published by U. S. News & World Report. The 572 universities in the category 
were not ranked nationally, but against their peers in one of four geographic 
regions. WSU placed in the “Regional University-North” category, reflecting 
the official Carnegie classification of universities whose highest degree 
is a master’s and of four-year colleges that specialize in professional 
as well as liberal arts degrees. In a 2010 study on cost versus quality, 
MassINC, the Boston–based nonpartisan public-policy think-tank, reported 
that Westfield State ranked first among all Massachusetts public and private 
institutions. The study used measures of college cost-effectiveness – assessing 
colleges by graduation rate as compared to the cost of tuition, fees, room, 
board, books and supplies. MassINC reported that “given the relatively 
similar profile of incoming students to several other Massachusetts public 
colleges, the success of students obtaining their attempted degree (at 
Westfield State) is phenomenal.” In 2012, WSU was ranked fourth nationally 
by US News in their Best Online Programs Honor Roll. The rankings were 
based on factors such as graduation rates, indebtedness of new graduates, 
and academic and career support services offered to students. The Faculty 
Credentials & Training rank was #1 in the country, with a score of 92.6 
on a 100-point scale and 11th in Student Services & Technology.[5] The 
University President is the day-to-day chief executive of the university, 
appointed by and responsible to the Board of Trustees, a group of 11 community 
and regional leaders, currently chaired by John F. Flynn III, Class of 
1979, and Chief Administrative Officer of the Massachusetts State Police. 
The President is assisted by a Cabinet, composed of five Vice Presidents, 
who oversee Academic Affairs, Student Affairs, Advancement and University 
Relations, Administration and Finance, and Enrollment Management. The University 
is currently led by Interim President Dr. Elizabeth Preston, appointed 
on November 25th, 2013 by the Board of Trustees following the resignation 
of previous president Evan S. Dobelle. The longest standing forum on campus, 
the Student Government Association (SGA) consists of a 75 member legislature 
elected by the student body and an 8-member executive council, which represent 
each class and residence hall, commuters, WSU’s multicultural community 
and alumni and work in the interest of academic and social concerns. A 
faculty of 222 tenured and tenure-track faculty members in 24 departments 
serves 4678 undergraduates. Eighty-five percent of the faculty hold terminal 
degrees in their fields and the student-faculty ratio in the day division 
is 18 to1. Fifteen percent of the faculty are persons of color. Current 
statistics provide an interesting view of the student body. According to 
the registrar, of the 4678 undergraduate students, 51% are women, 49% are 
men and 2866 students live in 10 residence halls. Financial Aid Office 
statistics for 2009-2010 note that 80% of undergraduates received some 
type of financial assistance including federal grants and state and institutional 
aid. Sixty-eight percent received a student loan; 148 scholarships totaling 
$572,412 were awarded and 342 students earned $458,260 through Federal 
Work Study. Seventy-seven percent of 2008 graduates secured employment 
within three months of graduation. The WSU Office of Institutional Research 
reports that of the 1139 first year students who entered day or evening 
divisions in the fall of 2010, the composite verbal and math SAT score 
was 1020. Their average high school G.P.A was 3.0. Twenty-five percent 
of the 2010 freshman class was in the top 25% of their high school class 
(58% reporting) with 72% in the upper half of their high school class. 
Seventy-nine percent of first year students from the class of 2009 returned 
for the fall semester of 2010. The university’s Urban Education Program, 
which functions as the school’s primary recruiter of high school students 
from diverse educational, linguistic, ethnic and cultural backgrounds, 
reports that 93% of first-year students served are from Massachusetts, 
while 37% of them are the first in their family to attend an institution 
of higher learning and 91% received financial assistance. As of fall 2010, 
131 faculty members serve 126 undergraduate and 139 graduate students in 
the Division of Graduate and Continuing Education. Westfield State employee 
fall 2010 rosters listed 607 employees, representing 221 faculty members, 
197 members of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees 
(AFSCME), 145 administrators and 40 non-unit professionals, 15% of whom 
are persons of color. Westfield State University has received accreditation 
by the New England Association of Schools and Colleges, Inc. In addition, 
its teacher licensure programs are accredited by the National Council for 
Accreditation of Teacher Education (NCATE), and the Massachusetts Department 
of Elementary and Secondary Education, Educator Preparation and Quality. 
The Athletic Training program is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation 
of Athletic Training Education (CAATE); The Health Fitness program by the 
Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP) 
and the Social Work program by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE) 
Its music program is accredited by the National Association of Schools 
of Music (NASM), while the Computer Science program is accredited by the 
Computing Accreditation Commission (CAC) of the Accreditation Board for 
Engineering and Technology (ABET). WSU has also been designated as a Commonwealth 
of Massachusetts-accredited Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) training 
institution. Full and part-time programs lead to undergraduate bachelor’s 
and advanced degrees, including: the Bachelor of Arts (B.A.), Bachelor 
of Science, (B.S.), Bachelor of Social Work (B.S.W.), Bachelor of Special 
Education (B.S.E.), Master of Education (M.Ed.), Master of Science (M.S.), 
Master of Arts (M.A.), Master of Public Administration (M.P.A.), and Master 
of Social Work (M.S.W.).There are 31 undergraduate majors, 34 minors and 
43 different concentrations at Westfield State University. New undergraduate 
majors include Nursing, Athletic Training, Spanish and Ethnic & Gender 
Studies and the newest graduate degree, a Master of Social Work. The highest 
enrolled majors are Criminal Justice, Business Management, Education, Psychology 
and Communication. The Honors Program is designed to provide academically 
motivated students with intellectually challenging courses from an interdisciplinary 
perspective and/or with a specialized topical focus. Honors classes are 
limited to 15 to 18 students with coursework that emphasizes greater interaction 
with classmates and the professor, more writing and discussion, and independent 
study. The honors experience extends beyond the classroom and often includes 
attendance at special events, receptions with guest lecturers, field trips 
to cultural events, participation in conferences, and informal gatherings 
to provide students with opportunities to socialize and learn. In addition, 
the university provides designated honors housing[6] Incoming first-year 
students with a minimum high school GPA of 3.5 and combined SAT scores 
of 1150 may be considered for participation in the Honors Program. Other 
factors that are predictive of academic success may be considered. Transfer 
students who graduate from a Commonwealth Honors Program at a community 
college are guaranteed admission to the program.[7] The Honors Program 
at Westfield State University enriches the educational experience of students 
in the program by promoting intellectual growth and nurturing student-faculty 
relationships. As part of the Honors Program, WSU students graduate with 
College Honors or Commonwealth Honors. Along with select honors courses 
offered each semester, honors students are offered other academic and social 
opportunities such as priority registration and access to special events 
both on-campus and off. The Honors Center is located in the Honors Department 
in Mod Hall. Westfield State University’s Division of Graduate and Continuing 
Education offers a variety of master’s degrees and graduate certificates. 
Classes are offered on-campus and/or online. Graduate study, post-baccalaureate 
teacher licensure, and community education courses are offered; in addition, 
several certificate programs, including a graduate certificate in homeland 
security. Classes are offered during the day, evening, one winter session 
and two summer sessions. Master’s are offered in English, Applied Behavior 
Analysis, Education, Mental Health, School Guidance (Pre-K-8 and 5-12), 
Public Administration, Accountancy, Criminal Justice and Social Work. Initial 
Teacher Licensure Degree Programs are offered in Early Childhood Education, 
Elementary Education, Special Education Secondary Biology, Secondary Chemistry, 
Middle School General Science, Secondary and Middle School History and 
Secondary and Middle School Mathematics, as well as Licensure programs 
for Reading Specialists and Principals in Elementary, Middle and Secondary 
Schools. WSU also has Professional Licensure Degree Programs including 
those in Early Childhood Education, Elementary Education, Physical Education, 
Secondary Biology, Middle School General Science, Secondary and Middle 
School History and Secondary and Middle School Mathematics. Non-Licensure 
Degree Programs include Early Childhood Education, Educational Administration, 
Elementary Education, History, Vocational Education, Secondary Education 
and Special Education. There is also a Certificate Program of Advanced 
Graduate Study (C.A.G.S.) in Educational Administration and School Principal 
Programs. Established in 2004, WSU’s Center for Teacher Education and Research 
(CENTER), works to further develop the connections between Westfield State 
University and its K-14 partners. Superintendents, principals and/or teachers, 
look to the CENTER as a resource for teacher education and professional 
development. The CENTER is located on the second floor of Juniper Park 
School. The resource room is open every Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday 
from 8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. The CENTER at Westfield State University 
recently collaborated with Gateway Regional School District, the lead school 
district, to acquire a one million dollar grant from the U.S. Department 
of Education (USDOE). The grant, titled “Memorializing Promise and Conflict: 
A Monumental History of American Democracy,” is part of the federal Teaching 
American History (TAH) program which helps area school districts to improve 
history teaching in grades 7 through 12 with innovative programs and new 
technology. It is significant to note that The CENTER has successfully 
directed and implemented TAH programs since 2005, bringing $4 million in 
TAH funds to the region. This is the fourth TAH grant it has received and 
administered. Other CENTER programs include: Science Grant - MMSP - a federally 
funded, state-run grant program that provides inquiry-based science professional 
development in partnership between the Gateway Regional School District, 
Holyoke Public Schools, Easthampton Public Schools and the CENTER. Full 
Release Mentor Training - a program done in collaboration with the New 
Teacher Center from Santa Cruz. This program works with veteran teachers 
on the skills necessary to support beginning teachers both in the day-to-day 
teaching duties and the growth of their teaching skills. Mentor Training 
- Each summer the CENTER provides foundational training for those teachers 
who work with beginning teachers in their districts. Ongoing courses and 
workshops for educators - the CENTER continues to offer a variety of credit 
and non-credit courses and workshops for principals, teachers, school nurses 
and central office administrators. These are held as week-long workshops 
during the summer, full-day and after school workshops during the school 
year, and some on-line training. Opened in fall 2010, the Banacos Academic 
Center is the home to three academic resource programs including Westfield 
State’s Tutoring Center, Disability Services and the Learning Disabilities 
Program. The University offers a supportive, understanding, academic setting 
where students with learning difficulties can flourish. A professional 
learning assistant is assigned to each first-year program student. Learning 
assistants teach students to master their individual learning strengths 
and assist students in becoming fully independent learners. The services 
available include: test accommodations, reader/scribes for examination, 
individual tutoring, academic advisement, early registration for classes 
for first-year and second-year students, access to Kurzweil 3000 scanner/readers 
and other assistive technology. Also provided is professional assistance 
with academic skills, time management and self-advocacy, note takers for 
classes, an extended course withdrawal policy and phonic ear assistance. 
The TRiO Student Support Services Program (SSSP) is a U.S. Department of 
Education federally funded TRiO program providing ongoing support throughout 
a Westfield student’s university career. SSSP offers eligible participants 
free, comprehensive academic and personal support designed to assist with 
persistence to graduation and preparation for graduate or professional 
school. Westfield State was recently awarded a grant of more than $1.3 
million by the U.S. Department of Education to help first-generation college 
students, students with financial need and students with disabilities complete 
their education. The retention and recruitment of first-generation university 
students from diverse educational, linguistic, ethnic, and cultural backgrounds, 
comprises the primary focus of the Urban Education Program which is designed 
to provide academic and personal counseling support to program students. 
The basic offerings of the program include: coursework with a strong emphasis 
on research methods, expository writing, time management, critical thinking 
and analytical skills; structured workshops on computer applications, hardware 
and basic programming; tutoring in all areas of the university curriculum; 
personal, academic and career counseling; financial aid assistance; and, 
opportunities to learn and grow in a university atmosphere that is sensitive 
to the wide range of obstacles that confront ethnically and educationally 
diverse students. There are nine on-campus and one off-campus housing options 
and over 75 active student recreational, social and academic clubs and 
organizations. Popular recreational choices are choral groups, concert 
band, drama/theater, jazz band, literary magazine, music ensembles, musical 
theater, pep band, radio station, student government, student newspaper, 
television station, and the Tekoa yearbook. Numerous programs of activities 
are provided by the honor societies at Westfield, they include: Alpha Phi 
Sigma (Criminal Justice), Kappa Delta Phi (Education), Lambda Iota Tau 
(Literature) Lambda Pi Eta (Communication Studies), Lambda Sigma (college 
service), Phi Alpha Theta (History), Phi Kappa Phi (superior scholarship 
in all disciplines), Pi Delta Phi (French), Pi Sigma Alpha (Political Science), 
Psi Chi (Psychology), Sigma Delta Pi (Spanish and Hispanic Culture), and 
Sigma Xi (Science and Engineering). The Ely Campus Center houses the Library, 
Arno Maris Art Gallery, Barnes and Noble Bookstore, Ely Studio Theatre, 
Communication department, Theatre Arts department, the Student Government 
Association and Third World Room. It also accommodates The Westfield Voice 
(the student newspaper), WSKB (the campus radio station), WSU-TV (the campus 
television station), a full service Dunkin Donuts, a Subway franchise, 
a Liquid Galaxy, the Wellness Center, several Student Affairs offices and 
a student lounge, which features student activities from concerts to film 
screenings. WSKB is the student-run Westfield State radio station. Equipped 
with current technology, the station broadcasts a variety of programs. 
The university is working to expand WSKB offerings to include community 
programming. WSU’s student newspaper, The Westfield Voice focuses on news 
that directly affects students. It is published weekly during the academic 
year. The newspaper's offices are located in the Ely Campus Center, room 
305. WSU-TV provides an on-campus, student-operated television station 
that serves as both a learning environment for students interested in television 
programming and as a campus information service to resident students who 
subscribe to cable television. The state-of-the art studio is also available 
to community groups who wish to produce programs for Channel 15, Westfield’s 
community television station that is a collaboration between the City of 
Westfield and the university. Westfield's TV production club airs a weekly 
news show titled, "Whip City Weekly", entirely produced by Westfield State 
students. Now in its fiftieth year, the award-winning, Emmy-nominated quiz 
show “As School Match Wits” is an academic competition featuring the region’s 
top high school students. Westfield State alumnus Leonard Collamore created 
the broadcast first aired on NBC-affiliate WWLP-TV. For thirty years, Westfield 
State's English Professor Phil Shepardson hosted the program. It is currently 
produced by WSU-TV in association with WGBY, Springfield’s local public 
television station with a crew composed of students from the university. 
Longtime TV personality Beth Ward hosts. The show airs weekly. The Woodward 
Center[8] is the hub of athletics, sports-related academics, and community 
fitness at Westfield State University. Named after the university's 17th 
President, Fredrick W. Woodward, the center opened in the summer of 2004. 
This $18 million facility was a result of a combined effort of private/public 
partnership and Westfield State University's capital campaign. The Woodward 
Center is an 80,000-square-foot (7,400 m2) facility that features an expansive 
field house. The 35,000-square-foot (3,300 m2) field house is large enough 
to hold an official NCAA track and field meet. It includes a four-lane 
track (six lanes on the straightaway), and areas inside the track for jumping, 
pole vaulting and throwing events. The field house has three full-length 
basketball courts, with the main performance court providing seating for 
1100, and a rock climbing area. When the university hosts its popular Speaker 
Series event, the field house is transformed into an auditorium-like setting. 
The first floor of the Woodward Center is a first-class athletic training 
facility with a fitness center, equipment room areas, and locker room space 
for each varsity team. Located on the second floor are a student lounge, 
a spacious aerobics/dance studio, four classrooms as well as exercise physiology, 
biomechanics, and motor learning laboratories, a multimedia computer lab, 
conference rooms, and office space for Westfield State's Athletic and Movement 
Science departments. Westfield State University received the prestigious 
Howard C. Smith Cup from the Massachusetts State College Athletic Conference 
in the spring of 2010 in recognition of the best athletics program in the 
state – the ninth time that the program has received such an honor. At 
Westfield State, 21 varsity teams compete in Division III of the NCAA, 
representing 10% of the student body. The Westfield State “Owls,” with 
their mascot, “Nestor” meet the competition in the blue and white colors 
of the university. The varsity intercollegiate teams for fall are Field 
Hockey, Women's Cross Country, Women's Volleyball, Women's Golf, Women's 
Soccer, Football, Men's Cross Country, Men's Golf, and Men's Soccer. Winter 
teams include Women's Basketball, Women's Indoor Track and Field, Women’s 
Swimming and Diving, Men’s Basketball, Men's Ice Hockey, Men's Indoor Track 
and Field, and Coed Cheering. The spring teams are Softball, Women's Golf, 
Women's Lacrosse, Women's Outdoor Track and Field, Men's Baseball, Men's 
Golf and Men's Outdoor Track and Field. More than 50 percent of the students 
at Westfield State University participate in the intramurals program. Sports 
include: The Banacos Memorial Road Race, billiards, dodge ball, flag football, 
floor hockey, golf, indoor soccer, ping pong, racquetball, sand volleyball, 
soccer, softball, sports trivia, ultimate Frisbee, wallyball, water basketball, 
water polo, wiffle ball, and volleyball. The Club Sports program offers 
Westfield State University students the opportunity to participate in non-varsity 
intercollegiate athletics competition, recreation and instruction. Club 
sports are recognized as student organizations. In addition to nine Smith 
Cups, the Westfield Owls hold MASCAC titles in Football, Volleyball, Women’s 
Soccer and Men’s and Women’s Cross Country. Westfield’s varsity teams have 
won nine conference championships and participate in NCAA and ECAC tournaments. 
The university’s Men’s and Women’s Track & Field teams are nationally-recognized, 
with 40 All Americans, 148 national qualifiers and 12 straight conference 
titles between them. The Women’s Cross Country team has won five straight 
MASCAC crowns. The women's field hockey team hosted the 1981 NCAA Division 
III Field Hockey Championship. The team finished third with a win over 
Elizabethtown College in the third place match. The Woodward Center is 
located next to the Alumni Field, which is the site for many of the university's 
intercollegiate and intramural outdoor activities. The artificial surface 
playing field has lights and is encircled by an eight-lane running track, 
named in honor of former track coach Jerry Gravel. Baseball, softball and 
grass practice fields surround Alumni Field. Additional indoor facilities 
on the main campus include a swimming pool and an expansive Wellness Center, 
both located in the Campus Center. A gymnasium with a full-length basketball 
court is located in Parenzo Hall. Westfield State has a wide variety of 
community and campus programming throughout the year, including musical 
and theatrical performances, art exhibits, lectures and film screenings. 
The university's Guest Lecture Series features daytime and evening lectures 
and performances, chosen by members of the faculty and staff. In conjunction 
with the English Dept. the university's Theatre Arts concentration produces 
two major productions each year in the Ely Studio Theatre. Its 2010/2011 
season includes a staged production of The Life and Adventures of Nicholas 
Nickleby by Charles Dickens. Past productions have included Molière's Tartuffe, 
John Gay's The Beggar’s Opera, and Chekhov's The Cherry Orchard. The Student 
Theatre Association (STA), a student club sanctioned and funded by the 
university’s Student Government Association, was formed in 2005 and is 
associated with the Theatre Arts Program. STA produces a mainstage show 
each year. Past productions have included Peter Shaffer's Black Comedy, 
William Saroyan's Hello Out There and Jean-Claude van Itallie's Interview. 
The oldest running club at Westfield State University is the Musical Theatre 
Guild, which is a student run group that puts on a musical every semester. 
The university has two galleries, which present on-going exhibits throughout 
the year. The Arno Maris Gallery, named in honor of the artist and former 
professor at the university, is located on the second floor of Ely Hall, 
adjacent to the Ely Studio Theatre, while the Westfield State University 
Downtown Art Gallery is housed in the historic Rinnova Building in the 
downtown campus at 105 Elm Street. Westfield State's galleries offer the 
work of local, regional and national artists, as well as shows displaying 
the work of student artists. Past exhibits have included the work of sculptor 
Tom Patti, illustrator Barbara Nessum, Jasmina Danowski and several WSU 
alumni including Arno Maris, Nevrotte Bedrossian, Diane Savino and John 
Smith, and American Masters from the Spanierman Gallery in New York City. 
The Night Owls are Westfield State University's first a cappella group. 
The group performs concerts around Western Massachusetts, in addition to 
out-of-state performances, including competing in the prestigious ICCA's 
competition. The Night Owls perform a free concert in Dever Auditorium 
at the end of each semester. In addition, a female a cappella group, the 
Aca-Owlettes, was formed in 2013. Westfield State invites the community 
to the “Haunted House” at Halloween, “Breakfast with Santa” in December, 
Aviation Day, Community Service Day and many sports such as hockey (played 
at Amelia Park Ice Arena), football and track. The Horace Mann Center, 
located across from Stanley Park at 333 Western Avenue, is the cornerstone 
of Westfield State University and houses classrooms and offices for professors 
and administrative departments as well as centralized services such as 
Admission, Financial Aid, and the Division of Graduate and Continuing Education. 
In addition, the Alumni Office, Marketing, Human Resources, Advancement 
and University Relations, the Criminal Justice department, and Community 
Education are located in the building which covers 36,000 square feet (3,300 m2). 
Originally built to serve as the headquarters for Stanley Home Products, 
"Door to Opportunity" remains inscribed above the main entrance. The original 
$1.5 million project, contracted by the Fontaine Brothers of Springfield, 
was completed in 1970 and the grand opening was held on October 17, 1970. 
It was not until 1999, nearly 30 years after the original construction 
began, that the building was assimilated into Westfield State. Westfield 
State purchased the building for $2.365 million and reopened the facility 
to students and faculty on October 13, 2000. Renovations on behalf of Westfield 
State included a two-story glass lobby as well as new classrooms and administrative 
office areas². Originally referred to as "333”, the building was formally 
renamed The Horace Mann Center in 2009 to honor the founder of Westfield 
State University. Parenzo Hall is the oldest academic building on the campus 
and is one of the original buildings abutting the green, along with Scanlon 
Hall and the original power plant. Initially, Parenzo Hall housed all of 
the university's classrooms and offices. Today, it contains a number of 
classrooms, academic departments, and administrative offices. The university’s 
main performance space, Dever Stage is directly off the lobby of Parenzo 
Hall. Dever hosts a variety of student productions, visiting lecturers, 
programs and special events presented throughout the year. Bates Hall is 
the second oldest academic building on campus. The building is home to 
most of the humanities academic departments. Its three floors contain a 
mix of classrooms and offices for faculty of the academic departments located 
in the building. The building is home to the English, History, Geography 
and Regional Planning, and Music departments. The Music department’s piano 
lab is located on the second floor and practice rooms are located in the 
basement and on the first floor. Ely Hall (pronounced EE-lee) is located 
at the far end of the Westfield State University campus adjacent to Tim 
and Jeanne’s (Dining Commons) and Lammers Hall. It houses the campus center, 
offices, radio and TV studios and the library among others. It is named 
after the 52nd governor of Massachusetts and a Westfield native who was 
an advocate for public works and education. It holds the Wellness Center 
next to Subway and is a two floor gym with weightlifting on the first floor, 
and exercise machines (treadmills, ellipticals,stationary bikes, etc)on 
the second floor. There is also a workout room that holds various exercise 
classes such as Zumba and Body Blast. A new basement was recently completed 
just before the Fall 2012 semester. It holds a brand new SGA meeting room, 
various offices, a lounge, a full service Dunkin Donuts, and The Owl's 
Nest which holds various events such as comedians and public speakers. 
The building is fully wheelchair accessible. Wilson Hall is one of the 
campus' largest academic buildings and was built in 1970. It was originally 
intended to be the science hall, and for the most part, remains so today 
with laboratories, classrooms, computer labs and departmental offices. 
A central open area on the first floor contains a large cafeteria lounge 
and Quixote's eatery. Expansion of this building broke ground in September 
2014. Davis and Dickinson are identical buildings that opened in September 
1966 as part of a large expansion project. Renovations were completed in 
2005, and new windows and flooring were installed in 2007. The buildings 
were named to commemorate Reverend Emerson Davis,[9] and John W. Dickinson, 
two former principals of the Westfield Normal School. Lammers Hall is located 
on the campus green near the Ely Campus Center. Sections are arranged in 
a square format with 12-14 rooms sharing a male and female bathroom, kitchen 
and lounge. The lobby has a pool table, television, foosball table and 
public restrooms. It was named for Professor Theresa Lammers, the pioneer 
of women’s athletic programs at WSU. Located in the Lammers Hall Annex 
is the Counseling Center, which provides psychological and substance abuse 
counseling to students; and the Office of Career Services which provides 
career planning assistance to students, alumni, faculty, and staff. Scanlon 
Hall, the oldest of the residential halls, was erected in 1956. Named after 
Edward J. Scanlon, WSU president from 1938 to 1961, it is located at the 
entrance to the main campus and was one of the three original buildings 
on the campus (along with Parenzo Hall and the original power plant). It 
is configured in a hallway layout with primarily triple rooms. Also housed 
in Scanlon Hall are the ‘Living Room’ meeting room and the campus’ largest 
banquet suite. Courtney Hall was built in 1989 by the Massachusetts State 
College Building Authority. The third newest building on campus, it is 
located near the center of the WSU campus between New Hall and Lammers 
Hall. It was named after Samuel Courtney, an 1885 graduate, practicing 
physician and civil rights advocate and associate of Booker T. Washington, 
his longtime friend and colleague. It houses approximately 500 students 
and has double, triple, and quad rooms. In addition to the main lounge, 
each of the four residential floors has a student common room. The Apartments 
are three separate apartment buildings that combine to make this semi-circular 
housing complex. The three halls: Conlin Hall, Seymour Hall, and Welch 
Hall were named in honor of three former deans of the university and are 
only available to upperclassmen. New Residence Hall, built in 2005, is 
the newest of the residential apartment buildings and houses upperclassmen. 
It offers three, four or six person co-ed apartments. Each apartment has 
a full kitchen, living room and one or two bathrooms. Classrooms, lounges, 
offices and a convenience store called the Market Place are located on 
the first floor. Lansdowne Place located at 38 Thomas Street, is Westfield 
State’s first downtown student housing location. Steady growth in enrollment 
at the college has resulted in substantial demand for student housing. 
Selected and leased by the Massachusetts Division of Capital Asset Management 
(DCAM) on behalf of WSU from FS Holdings Lansdowne, LLC, for 10 years, 
it will house upperclassmen. Students began moving in on a phased floor-by-floor 
basis in fall 2010. Full occupancy, 216 students, began in fall 2011. University 
Hall, is the newest addition to the campus. Located directly between Ely 
and Lammers Hall, it is the newest residential building. It houses 413 
Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors. The university's first suite style living, 
it has 4 and 6 student suites. Each suite includes a common room with dorm 
rooms branching off of it, as well as one or two bathrooms and a kitchenette. 
There are several dining options on campus, ranging from sit-down to takeout, 
and restaurant style to the cafeteria style of Tim and Jeanne’s, where 
students can eat three meals a day. Sodexo is the major vendor on campus. 
In addition, the campus hosts Pandini's (Italian food), Dunkin' Donuts, 
Commuter Café, Subway, Quixote’s, the Marketplace (convenience food store), 
and the Garden Café. The seven dining options are located in five buildings 
on campus: Ely Hall, Wilson Hall, Tim and Jeanne’s, New Hall, and The Horace 
Mann Center. The Campus Card serves as the student’s official university 
identification card, meal card, and if desired, Owl Bucks card. Each meal 
plan includes $150 Sodexo Bucks per semester ($50 for the commuter plan), 
which students can use to buy from any food vendor on-campus. Students 
may also add Owl Bucks to their Campus Card that can then be used for making 
purchases using “Owl Bucks.” Owl Bucks are accepted at the university bookstore, 
vending machines and laundry rooms in residential halls, and at numerous 
off-campus restaurants and businesses throughout Westfield. Students spend 
over $500,000 per year in Owl Buck transactions in downtown Westfield. 
