The Western League of Professional Baseball Clubs, simply called the Western 
League, was a minor league baseball league originally founded on February 
11, 1885, and focused in the Midwest. After several failures and reorganizations, 
the most notable version of the league was organized by Ban Johnson on 
November 20, 1893. In 1900, the League was renamed the American League, 
and declared its major league status in 1901 against the older National 
League of 1876, which was centered in the American Northeast states. Before 
its most notable incarnation in November 1893, the Western League existed 
in various forms. The League was originally formed as a minor league on 
February 11, 1885.[1][2][3] The original clubs were located in Indianapolis‚ 
Kansas City‚ Cleveland‚ Milwaukee‚ Toledo and Omaha/Keokuk, Iowa. [4] The 
Indianapolis Hoosiers won the first title with a record of 27–4–1.[2] The 
League failed at the end of the 1885 season, but it was reformed again 
before the 1886 season.[1] In 1887, the league was dominated by Topeka's 
Golden Giants, a high-priced collection of major leaguers, including Bug 
Holliday, Jim Conway, Perry Werden and Jimmy Macullar, which won the title 
by 15½ games.[2] The League failed yet again after playing a partial 1888 
season, then was reformed again for the 1892 and 1893 seasons before folding 
temporarily again on June 20, 1893.[1] In a meeting in Detroit, Michigan, 
on November 20, 1893, the Western League reorganized again. From this point 
forward, this version of the W.L. has continued in existence (eventually 
to become the modern-day American League). At that meeting, Ban Johnson, 
(Byron Bancroft "Ban" Johnson, 1865–1931), was elected President, and would 
remain so until his retirement nearly thirty-five years later. Johnson, 
a Cincinnati-based newspaper reporter, had been recommended by his friend 
Charles Comiskey (1859–1931), former major league star with the St. Louis 
Browns in the 1880s, who was then managing the Cincinnati Reds. After the 
1894 season, when Comiskey's contract with the Reds was up, he decided 
to take his chances at ownership. He bought the Sioux City team and transferred 
it to Saint Paul, Minnesota. These two men would be among the cornerstones 
of the American League. After the 1899 season, the National League announced 
it was dropping four of its franchises, reducing its membership from 12 
to 8 teams, eliminated were: Baltimore, Cleveland, Louisville and Washington. 
This afforded an opportunity for the Western circuit to expand into those 
vacated cities. In a meeting in Chicago on October 11, 1899, the Western 
League renamed itself the American League. It was still officially a minor 
league, subject to the National Agreement, and generally subordinate to 
the older National League of Major League Baseball, founded 1876. The N.L. 
gave permission to the new A.L. to put a team in Chicago that year, and 
Comiskey moved his St. Paul club to the South Side. However, the new team 
in Chicago was subject to rules from the National League. The Cubs (then 
called the Orphans) were allowed to draft two players each year from the 
A.L. team. Comiskey was also barred from using the name "Chicago" in all 
of his dealings, so he cleverly revived the old moniker "White Stockings" 
from the days of Cap Anson for his team. The A.L. also transferred the 
Grand Rapids team to Cleveland for the 1900 season. After the 1900 season, 
the American League declined to renew its membership in the "National Agreement" 
and declared itself a "major league". It began raiding National League 
team rosters and attempting to compete directly against the N.L.. The franchises 
in smaller cities of Buffalo, Indianapolis, Kansas City and Minneapolis 
were replaced by larger, more important urban centers of Baltimore, Boston, 
Philadelphia and Washington for the 1901 season, of which the middle two 
already had N.L. teams. With the move of Milwaukee to St. Louis in 1902, 
and Baltimore to New York City in 1903, for the reason that new league 
would not be totally respected and have "major league" status without a 
team in the nation's largest city. The American League later team lineup 
settled on five franchises in cities already previously occupied by the 
National League (Boston, Chicago, New York, Philadelphia, and St. Louis) 
and two in cities that had been recently abandoned by the National League 
(Cleveland and Washington), but only one in a city remaining from the former 
Western League lineup of 1899 (Detroit). Four of the other 1899 Western 
League cities now host Major League Baseball today (Kansas City, Milwaukee, 
and St. Paul and Minneapolis jointly), while three do not (Buffalo, Grand 
Rapids, and Indianapolis, but have minor league teams). This membership 
list for both leagues lasted in place for near a half-century until the 
move of the Boston Braves to Milwaukee in 1952, the St. Louis Browns to 
Baltimore becoming the new Baltimore Orioles in 1954 and the Philadelphia 
Athletics to Kansas City in 1955. The American League's claim to major 
league status was initially disputed, but had to be recognized after the 
Boston Red Sox defeated the National League champion Pittsburgh Pirates 
in the first World Series national championship held in the Fall of 1903. 
When Ban Johnson changed his league's name to the American League before 
the 1900 season, another "Western League" was immediately formed to function 
on the supporting "minor league" level.[1] This League operated from 1900 
to 1937 and later from 1947 to 1958. Its franchises were located west of 
the Mississippi River, in the Great Plains and Rocky Mountains states, 
as in that early part of the 20th Century, it was difficult and long-enduring 
for teams to go on "road trips" to distant cities by the then existing 
railroad passenger train systems. In its post-World War II incarnation, 
the later Western League included clubs in Denver, Colorado (now represented 
in the National League by the Colorado Rockies), Des Moines, Iowa, Omaha, 
Nebraska, and Colorado Springs, Colorado (now all represented by teams 
of the Class AAA ("Triple A") Pacific Coast League). Several other 20th 
