The Western Canada Summer Games were established in 1975 as a multi-sport 
event to provide development opportunities for amateur athletes and to 
help them advance their skills in a competitive, but friendly environment. 
The games also serve to broaden the exposure of talented athletes and provide 
a training ground for national and international level competitions. Social 
and cultural elements round out the sporting events for athletes. The competitors 
for the WCSG consist of athletes from the four Western Provinces (British 
Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan, and Manitoba), and the three Territories 
(Yukon, Northwest Territories, and Nunavut). The following is a list of 
sports that have participated in a Western Canada Summer Games: Archery 
(M, W), Artistic Gymnastics (M, W), Athletics (M, W, WC, SO), Badminton 
(M, W), Baseball (M), Basketball (M, W), Boxing (M), Canoeing (M, W), Cycling 
(M, W), Diving (M, W), Equestrian (M, W), Field Hockey (M, W), Handgun 
(Open), Judo (M, W), Rhythmic Gymnastics (M, W), Rifle (Open), Rowing (M, 
W), Rugby (M/W), Sailing (M, W), Soccer (M, W), Softball (M, W), Squash 
(M, W), Synchronized Swimming (W), Swimming (M, W), Table Tennis (M, W), 
Team Handball (M, W), Tennis (M, W), Trap Shooting (Open), Skeet Shooting 
(Open), Volleyball (M, W), Water Polo (M, W), Water Skiing (M, W), Weightlifting 
(M/W), Wrestling (M, W) The Kamloops, British Columbia 2011 Western Canada 
Summer Games were held August 5-14, 2011 in Kamloops B.C., which included 
two phases. Phase 1 events include: Phase 2 events include: Over the past 
number of decades in all areas of Western Canada there has been a remarkable 
hosting of sports competitions of all kinds, held under a wide variety 
of authorities, but all, in their own individual sport rights, worthy, 
effective and official. These have been local and area competitions, regional 
and provincial games, some featuring many sports, some held in the winter 
season, some in the summer, and some staged indoors with others, outdoors. 
Some of the competitions had varied recognition and sanctions from national 
sport governing bodies, while others didn’t. Most of the competitions had 
age restrictions, scholastic or geographic restrictions of some kind. It 
was inevitable that people concerned closely with the development of athletes 
and sport, started to take a long critical look at what was going on in 
Western Canada. This concern led one provincial government to engage in 
one-on-one talks with its sport federations, which led to larger group 
talks then formal meetings and conferences that viewed, reviewed and over 
viewed the total situation. The crunching conclusion – the existing sport 
competitions just were not developing athletes of national and international 
caliber and were not providing adequate outlets for greater recognition 
of many sports and athletes. That conclusion was not a criticism of the 
benefits of existing sports programs but recognition simply that athletes 
just were not progressing along the continuum to achieve national and international 
results. The various provincial games of 1972 combined to form the idea 
of staging major multi-sport games in Western Canada, based on the highly 
demanding rules and regulations of international Games, which would attract 
the greatest number of Western Canadian athletes for open competition. 
By 1973, the final refined idea was a major program that would provide 
Western Canadian athletes with an opportunity to train for and participate 
in high standard competition as well as create an interest in some lesser-known 
sports on the part of younger athletes. The Western Canada Summer Games 
were officially launched in Regina, Saskatchewan in August 1975, in a pre-Olympic 
Games year, along with the decision to hold the Games every four years, 
one year ahead of the Olympic Games, and using the same 23 summer sports 
disciplines. In 1983, the Yukon and Northwest Territories applied for membership 
to the Games and debuted with a total of 23 athletes between the two territories. 
Following the 1987 Games, a review of the Games was conducted and it was 
agreed that the purpose of the Western Canada Summer Games should be to 
provide developing athletes with an opportunity to compete in competitions 
that support provincial or territorial plans and which might lead to greater 
competitions at the national level (i.e. Canada Games, National Championships, 
etc.). The 1990 Western Canada Summer Games held in Winnipeg, Manitoba, 
saw provincial and territorial team sizes grow to in excess of 700 athletes 
and coaches participating in 31 sports with the focus shifting from the 
original pre Olympic showcase of the “Best in the West”, to a more broad 
approach that allowed each individual sport to determine an age group for 
their sport. This approach proved to be beyond the financial capacities 
of the provinces/territories to sustain, and the mix of categories was 
deemed difficult for hosts to market and for provinces/territories to rationalize 
their involvement. At the 1995 Games in Abbotsford, B.C., team sizes were 
reduced to approximately 500 athletes and coaches participating in 23 sports, 
with many of them focusing on developmental age groups. During the Ministers 
meeting in 1995, direction was given to the Western Canada Games Council 
by the Ministers to further reduce the teams to a limit of 400 participants, 
and to determine a fit for the Games. Alberta and Yukon withdrew from the 
Western Canada Games following the 1995 Games due to lack of clear fit 
for the Games. The Northwest Territories increased the size of their team 
and brought a record 152 athletes to participate. By the 1999 Games in 
Prince Albert, Saskatchewan, team sizes had been reduced to approximately 
400 and more sports were fitting into the model of developing athlete’s 
age eligible for the next Canada Games (especially in the case of Canada 
Summer Games team sports). For these reasons, Alberta agreed and was reinstated 
in the Games. The Yukon Territory was also welcomed back to the Games family. 
In June 2003, Nunavut debuted as the third Territory to participate, and 
brought the total membership of the Western Canada Summer Games to 7 jurisdictions. 
The current rationale for the Western Canada Summer Games is to bi-sect 
the Canada Summer Games cycle (the Technical Packages are aligned two years 
younger than the Canada Summer Games ages where possible) and provides 
an opportunity for top age-class athletes to test their athletic talent 
against the best in the west. This is the medal count from the 2007 Western 
