Western New York is the westernmost region of the state of New York. It 
includes the cities of Buffalo, Rochester, Niagara Falls, the surrounding 
suburbs, as well as the outlying rural areas of the Great Lakes lowlands, 
the Genesee Valley, and the Southern Tier. One writer suggests Western 
New York's eastern border to be the Preemption Line, an historic political 
division of Native American tribal lands.[1] Western New York consists 
of 17 western counties in New York State: Allegany, Cattaraugus, Chautauqua, 
Chemung, Erie, Genesee, Livingston, Monroe, Niagara, Ontario, Orleans, 
Schuyler, Seneca, Steuben, Wayne, Wyoming, and Yates, with a land area 
of 11,764 square miles (30,470 km2).[2] Western New York can also be defined 
as the area of the Holland Purchase and the Phelps and Gorham Purchase. 
The area is primarily served by Buffalo and Rochester media markets, although 
there is considerable overlap between these two markets, as well as other 
American and Canadian media markets (particularly from nearby Toronto). 
Western New York is in some contexts considered a sub-region of "Upstate 
New York" (when that term is used to describe all of New York State outside 
Long Island and the New York City metropolitan area); in other contexts 
it is considered a separate region from "Upstate." While the term usually 
includes both the Buffalo and Rochester metropolitan areas, occasionally 
"Western New York" describes only the Buffalo-Niagara region, with Greater 
Rochester being classified as part of the Finger Lakes Region. Western 
New York has four "sub-regions". One "sub-region" is the Greater Niagara 
Region, comprising Niagara, Erie and Wyoming counties. The second "sub-region" 
is the Genesee Region which derives its name from the Genesee River (and 
not Genesee County). This “sub-region” which includes Monroe, Livingston, 
Wayne, Orleans, Ontario and Yates counties. These two sub-regions share 
Genesee County. The mountainous southern regions of Chautauqua, Cattaraugus, 
and Allegany counties make up a third "sub-region" known as Chautauqua–Allegheny 
Region (also known as Southwestern New York; the region overlaps with the 
Southern Tier). This portion of Western New York takes up most of the western 
New York counties along the New York–Pennsylvania border. Finally the fourth 
region is the western Finger Lakes Region which is Seneca, Steuben, Schuyler, 
and Chemung counties. A large portion of the Finger Lakes Region is not 
part of Western New York, but rather Central New York. Typically the first 
three sub-regions are included in Western New York, while the western Finger 
Lakes region are included in the Finger Lakes region, though it is at times 
also considered part of Western New York. If it were counted as a single 
area, the population of Western New York would number just over 2.6 million, 
and would rank as the 24th largest metropolitan area of the United States, 
between the Pittsburgh metropolitan area and the Sacramento, California 
metropolitan area. However, the U.S. Census Bureau has classified the Buffalo 
and Rochester areas as two different metropolitan areas. If it were counted 
as a state, the population of Western New York would rank as the 37th most 
populated state in the United States. The following cities are found in 
the 17 western counties: Batavia, Buffalo, Canandaigua, Corning, Dunkirk, 
Elmira, Jamestown, Lackawanna, Lockport, Niagara Falls, North Tonawanda, 
Olean, Rochester, Salamanca, Tonawanda. Hornell. The following villages 
are found in the 17 western counties: Addison, Akron, Albion, Alden, Alexander, 
Alfred, Allegany, Almond, Andover, Angelica, Angola, Arcade, Arkport, Attica, 
Avoca, Avon, Barker, Bath, Belmont, Bemus Point, Bergen, Blasdell, Bloomfield, 
Bolivar, Brockport, Brocton, Burdett, Caledonia, Canaseraga, Canisteo, 
Cassadaga, Castile, Cattaraugus, Celoron, Cherry Creek, Churchville, Clarence, 
Clifton Springs, Clyde, Cohocton, Corfu, Cuba, Dansville, Delevan, Depew, 
Dresden, Dundee, Dunkirk, East Aurora, East Randolph, East Rochester, Eden, 
Elba, Ellicottville, Elmira Heights, Fairport, Falconer, Farnham, Forestville, 
Franklinville, Fredonia, Gainesville, Geneseo, Gowanda, Hamburg, Hammondsport, 
Hilton, Holley, Honeoye Falls, Horseheads, Interlaken, Kenmore, Lakewood, 
Lancaster, Le Roy, Leicester, Lewiston, Lima, Limestone, Little Valley, 
Livonia, Lodi, Lyndonville, Lyons, Lockport, Macedon, Manchester, Mayville, 
Medina, Middleport, Millport, Montour Falls, Mount Morris, Naples, Newark, 
North Collins, North Hornell, North Tonawanda, Nunda, Oakfield, Odessa, 
Orchard Park, Ovid, Painted Post, Palmyra, Panama, Pavilion, Penn Yan, 
Perry, Perrysburg, Phelps, Pike, Pittsford, Portville, Randolph, Red Creek, 
Richburg, Riverside, Rushville, Savona, Scottsville, Sherman, Shortsville, 
Silver Creek, Silver Springs, Sinclairville, Sloan, Sodus, Sodus Point, 
South Corning, South Dayton, Spencerport, Springville, Tonawanda, Van Etten, 
Victor, Warsaw, Waterloo, Watkins Glen, Wayland, Webster, Wellsburg, Wellsville, 
Westfield, Williamsville, Wilson, Wolcott, Wyoming and Youngstown. Western 
New York has a humid continental climate heavily influenced by both Lake 
Erie and Lake Ontario. Winters are long and cold, often lasting from around 
mid-November to early April. There are often snows before and after that 
period, as well. Western New York is known for its lake effect snows, which 
can result in highly localized, sometimes intense and even historic snow 
events. Lake effect storms are a result of cold air blowing over warm lake 
waters. Lake effect snows are usually most active between November and 
February and typically diminish when Lake Erie freezes over. Generally, 
the heaviest amount of snow in Western New York during the winter falls 
near the southern end of Erie County. Spring and fall in Western New York 
are usually short and changeable. The presence of the lakes allows for 
fruit growing and wine production along areas adjacent to both lakes which 
retard the development of damaging spring and fall frost, thereby extending 
the growing season. Lost in its famed winters, Western New York summers 
are among the sunniest in the Northeast and are generally very pleasant. 
Thanks in part to breezes blowing over Lakes Erie and Ontario (which are 
usually cooler than the air temperature in the summer), most of Western 
New York enjoy generally cooler and more comfortable summers than other 
regions in the same climatic zone. Interstate System U.S. Routes Western 
New York has two airports that provide significant regular passenger service, 
Buffalo-Niagara International Airport and Greater Rochester International 
Airport.[10][11] Buffalo-Niagara International Airport is the most patronized 
airport facility in Western New York. While it primarily serves as the 
regional airport for the Buffalo-Niagara Falls Metropolitan Area, the facility 
doubles as a gateway to Canada, and a good portion of its passengers (33%) 
are Canadian. The second major airport in Western New York, Greater Rochester 
International Airport, does not see as much traffic as Buffalo-Niagara 
International Airport. Still, located just three nautical miles southwest 
of Downtown Rochester, the facility provides convenient access to airline 
service for many residents of the Rochester Metropolitan Area. The northern 
part of Western New York features four railroad stations in service on 
the Empire Corridor; Rochester, Buffalo-Depew, Buffalo-Exchange and Niagara 
Falls.[12] The Buffalo-Exchange Street and Niagara Falls stations do not 
see as much rail service as the other two Western New York stations due 
to the fact that west of Depew Station, Amtrak's Lake Shore Limited leaves 
the Empire Corridor en route to the Midwest. For a period of time, there 
were proposals to service these four stations with high-speed rail. A major 
objective of implementing high-speed rail service was to better connect 
Western New York as well as the rest of Upstate New York with New York 
City. However, little of substance has come of these proposals. Service 
to other parts of Western New York ended from the mid-1960s to 1970. The 
Erie Lackawanna's Phoebe Snow served on a southeastern trajectory from 
Buffalo to Elmira, Binghamton, Scranton and Hoboken; service ended in 1966. 
The E-L's Lake Cities originated in Chicago, passing through Western New 
York's Jamestown, then through the rest of the Southern Tier, Orange County 
and Hoboken; service ended in 1970. The Pennsylvania Railroad's the Buffalo 
Day Express was another route served Western New York, traveling south 
to Baltimore via Olean and Harrisburg; service ended in 1967.[13] The Buffalo 
and Pittsburgh Railroad and WNY&P both operate freight hauling in the region. 
A few short railroads offer occasional rail service, including the New 
York and Lake Erie Railroad and the Arcade and Attica Railroad. The Niagara 
Frontier Transportation Authority runs regular bus service throughout the 
Buffalo–Niagara Falls metropolitan area.[14] The Rochester-Genesee Regional 
Transportation Authority serves Rochester and the Chautauqua Area Regional 
Transit System serves Chautauqua County. First Transit contracts with the 
Seneca Nation of Indians, the Olean Area Transit System and Access Allegany 
to provide public transportation to most of the Southern Tier. In addition 
to the public transportation authorities, which provide limited intercity 
connections, several commercial intercity bus services also operate. Coach 
USA operates a loop service between Buffalo, Jamestown and Olean; the bus 
connects to a route to New York City in Olean and to Megabus service to 
Toronto and New York City in Buffalo. Fullington Trailways operates a daily 
rural route between Buffalo and various locations in Pennsylvania; New 
York Trailways also serves Buffalo and Rochester, connecting to various 
locations, as does Greyhound Bus Lines. One discount "Chinatown service" 
operates in Western New York; Ocean Travel runs an overnight express service 
between Buffalo, Rochester and New York City. The territory of Western 
New York, until the 17th century, held by the Neutral Nation in the northern 
Niagara region and the Wenrohronon and Erie Indians around the Allegheny 
River. The Seneca nation and their allies in the Iroquois Confederacy eliminated 
those tribes in wars during the Beaver Wars between 1638 and 1701, with 
any survivors being assimilated into the Senecas (in the case of the Erie 
and Neutral) or Huron (in the case of the Wenro). The Neutral territory 
is currently held by Tuscaroras, who moved up from the Carolinas while 
refugees from the Erie tribes moved south to the Carolinas. French forces 
settled in parts of what is now Western New York through much of the 17th 
century, beginning with Étienne Brûlé's pass-through of the region in 1615 
and Joseph de La Roche Daillon's missionary journeys in the 1620s; some 
relics of their presence, including Fort Niagara and a portage road that 
follows modern New York State Route 394 between Lake Erie and Chautauqua 
Lake, are still visible in the region. Western New York's land was acquired 
from the Iroquois through the Nanfan Treaty, which ceded the territory 
to England at the end of the Beaver Wars in 1701. At the time, four of 
the British colonies (Pennsylvania, New York, Massachusetts and Connecticut) 
laid claim to the unsettled territory, as did New France until the Seven 
Years' War; the dispute was eventually settled in New York's favor a century 
later. Most of Western New York was officially off-limits to all of the 
colonies as a result of the establishment of an Indian Reserve over the 
area following the Seven Years' War. New York formally acquired the land 
for settling through the Holland Purchase, the Phelps and Gorham Purchase, 
the Treaty of Canandaigua, and the Treaty of Buffalo Creek during the late 
18th and early 19th centuries. During the War of 1812 Western New York 
was part of the borderland frontier between the United States and British 
Canada and became the scene of various military actions. The two major 
Western New York cities, Buffalo and Rochester, benefited greatly from 
the opening of the Erie Canal. With its strategic position at the western 
end of the Erie Canal, the eastern end of Lake Erie and proximity to Niagara 
Falls and Canada, Buffalo emerged as a major port. Niagara Falls provided 
Buffalo with a ready supply of power, so much so that one of its enduring 
nicknames is "The City of Light". Buffalo experienced steady growth during 
the 19th century and at one point was one of the 10 most populated cities 
in the United States. According to some, Rochester was "America's First 
Boomtown"[15] and was a key player in the flour industry (hence its initial 
nickname "Flour City"). Its growth was attributed to both the completion 
of the Erie Canal and its resulting significance in the flour industry. 
Olean was originally planned to be a similar major hub, but it proved to 
be at a major disadvantage: located near the headwaters of the Allegheny 
River (a factor its planners had hoped would make the city a gateway to 
the Midwest), the river was too shallow to support large boat travel or 
shipping on a consistent basis. As a region, Western New York played a 
significant role in the American economy during the 19th century. Large 
scale immigration from Ireland, Italy, Poland, Great Britain and Germany 
soon followed into the region. The New Religious Movement known as Spiritualism 
was among several that arose in the early 19th century burned-over district 
of Western New York. Its major center is Lily Dale, one of the largest 
spiritualism communities in the United States. The original house of the 
Fox sisters was relocated to Lily Dale in 1916. Joseph Smith Jr., founder 
of the Latter Day Saint movement, reported receiving the Book of Mormon 
in Palmyra, Wayne County. The women's civic organization Zonta was founded 
in Buffalo in 1919. In the late 20th century this area became part of the 
Rust belt of the United States, being a focal point for the transportation 
of grain, steel, and coal. The opening of the Welland Canal in 1957 effectively 
rendered the narrower Erie Canal obsolete, further exacerbating economic 
problems in the region. The area saw an economic decline during the period 
of deindustrialization, leaving many empty steel mills including those 
of Bethlehem Steel, which was the 2nd largest steel mill in the world. 
The plant located in Lackawanna, New York provided nearly 25,000 jobs to 
the local economy. Republic Steel also had a large integrated steel mill 
located in South Buffalo. General Motors in Tonawanda is the largest vehicle 
engine plant in the world, which still is a major contributor to the Buffalo 
area economy. Ford Motor Company also maintains a large manufacturing facility 
in Woodlawn, New York, which is just south of Buffalo. Western New York 
is culturally a Great Lakes/Interior Northeastern area, with a dose of 
Appalachia in the Southern Tier, an overlapping region of the state. Buffalo 
appears to most to have similarities to other Great Lakes cities/areas, 
while having Northeastern proclivities. The similarities with Chicago run 
the list from sharing a common industrial base traditionally built around 
steel and automobile manufacturing. The cities were both developed during 
the same period in American history, so the street patterns, architecture, 
and ethnic communities share a similar appearance. Unlike most of the Eastern 
seaboard, both local populations also speak with the same dialect of Inland 
North English, with its use of short broad vowels and heavily pronounced 
final "r" sounds in words ending in the letter "r". Western New York is 
part of the Inland North region of American English, which means it is 
subject to the Northern Cities vowel shift; a distinct variant of that 
accent, "Buffalo English", is heard in many parts of the region. Finally, 
most Western New York sports fans support the Buffalo Bills and Buffalo 
Sabres. Team loyalties of sports fans in the rest of upstate New York are 
more divided. Most baseball fans support the New York Yankees and New York 
Mets, although the Toronto Blue Jays have seen an increase in support due 
to the influx of Canadians in the area - as well as the region's proximity 
to Toronto, the Blue Jays' increased on-field success in the mid-2010s, 
and the affiliation with the longstanding minor league Buffalo Bisons. 
The region has no clear favorite professional basketball franchise, with 
the Brooklyn Nets, Cleveland Cavaliers, New York Knicks and Toronto Raptors 
all claiming parts of the region as part of their regional broadcasting 
territories. (Western New York puts more emphasis on college basketball, 
where the "Big 4" Division I programs—Canisius, Niagara, St. Bonaventure 
and UB—all have strong followings and rivalries. The college basketball 
scene once had enough clout to help drive Buffalo's NBA team, the 1970s-era 
Buffalo Braves, out of the city.) Syracuse University sports also carry 
a pretty large following as well. Perhaps the best-known food specialty 
of Western New York is Buffalo chicken wings (known locally simply as 'wings' 
or 'chicken wings', but never 'Buffalo wings').[citation needed] The two 
best-known places to get wings are Duff's and the Anchor Bar, which have 
a strong local rivalry in Buffalo.[citation needed] At the 1885 Erie County 
Fair (known as the Hamburg Fair) in Hamburg, New York, Frank and Charles 
Menches sold a ground beef sandwich, which is one of the earliest claims 
of the invention of the hamburger.[16] "Friday night fish fry" is also 
regionally popular, a holdover from when Catholics were forbidden to eat 
meat on Fridays. It is usually skinless cod although most restaurants in 
the area claim they use the higher quality haddock, and is frequently beer-battered, 
deep fried, and served with French fries and cole slaw. Numerous restaurants 
in Western New York have a Friday fish fry special. The fish fry retains 
particular popularity during Lent, when Catholics are still barred from 
eating meat on Friday.[citation needed] Beef on Weck is a regional favorite 
and a local invention in which sliced warm roast beef is piled high on 
a Kummelweck roll topped with caraway seeds and large grained salt, au 
jus and horseradish are often added to the sandwich. A garbage plate is 
popular in the Rochester area. It was created and continues to be served 
by Nick Tahou Hots on West Main Street. Other Rochester-specific foods 
include the white hot, a hot dog with a slight variation of ingredients 
that appears without the distinctive pink color of most hot dogs.[citation 
needed] Butter lambs are a popular tradition in Buffalo during the Lenten 
season leading into Easter. The Broadway Market, a market in Buffalo, is 
famous for this product. Italian-American food is a specialty in western 
New York. Most towns in the region have pizzerias. The region produces 
many agricultural products, including milk, maple syrup, apples, cherries, 
potatoes, sweet corn, strawberries, raspberries, peaches, and grapes. As 
with the rest of Upstate New York, dairy farming is an important part of 
the economy. New York State is a leading producer among the states of dairy, 
maple, and wine. In urban areas in Western New York, education, business, 
light manufacturing and tourism have replaced heavy manufacturing which 
left the area at the end of World War II. Rochester and Buffalo were especially 
hard-hit with the exodus of manufacturing jobs to other areas of the United 
States and nations like China and Mexico. Niagara Falls was also hard-hit 
and has shed half of its population since its peak in 1960. Outside of 
the cities, agriculture has always been a major factor in the economy, 
especially dairy farming. Ski country runs through Western New York. Glenwood 
and Ellicottville both have multiple ski resorts within their boundaries; 
Ellicottville, in particular, has seen massive gentrification from the 
development of the large ski resorts within the town boundaries and has 
attempted to build on that growth by branding itself as a year-round destination 
with numerous festivals. At their peak in the 1960s, over a dozen ski resorts 
were in Western New York, most of them in Cattaraugus County. In Niagara 
County, viticulture, or wine culture, is also becoming a driver of the 
economy. In order to take advantage of this, the state has created the 
Niagara Wine Trail. To a certain extent, viticulture is also prominent 
in Chautauqua County, where Welch's has a long history; the western Finger 
Lakes also have a wine industry. American Rock Salt, the largest operating 
salt mine in the United States, is located in Livingston County.[17] During 
the late 1990s, then-Governor George Pataki signed an agreement granting 
the Seneca Nation of New York the right to acquire and build three full-scale 
casino gaming operations. The three casinos (Seneca Niagara Casino in Niagara 
Falls, Seneca Allegany Casino in Salamanca and the controversial Seneca 
Buffalo Creek Casino in Buffalo) are the only casinos that operate over 
all of Western New York as part of the agreement, for which the Senecas 
pay a portion of revenues to the state of New York (which, in turn, returns 
part of that money to the host municipalities). The three native tribes 
in the region (Seneca Nation, Tonawanda Band and Tuscarora) also have a 
large influence in the convenience store sector. The tribes have long maintained 
that they are exempt from state excise taxes on gasoline and tobacco products, 
which allows native-owned convenience stores to provide lower prices than 
their non-native counterparts. Gasoline tax advantages were most pronounced 
in the 1990s, when low overall gas prices made the tax advantage far more 
noticeable. In the 1990s and 2000s, a mail-order tobacco industry thrived 
on Seneca reservations, an industry that has mostly been cut off since 
then. Increasing regulations now prohibit Senecas from receiving or selling 
name-brand cigarettes without taxes, sending tobacco products by mail (Prevent 
All Cigarette Trafficking Act) or private delivery, or accepting credit 
cards for remote purchases; the Senecas still sell native-produced tobacco 
products in brick-and-mortar stores on the reservations. Large tobacco 
farms can be seen in much of the Cattaraugus Reservation to meet the demand 
for native-grown, tax-exempt tobacco. Western New York is home to many 
small, medium and large corporations, including: Western New York is home 
to two significant scenic attractions. Niagara Falls is undoubtedly the 
most famous attraction in Western New York. Forming part of Western New 
York's border with Canada, the Falls has evolved into a major destination 
for tourists and locals alike. Another, less famous scenic attraction, 
is Letchworth State Park. Located 35 miles south of Rochester, Letchworth 
State Park has been termed "The Grand Canyon of the East". Allegany State 
Park in southern Cattaraugus County offers 65,000 acres of recreation space 
for camping, hiking, cabin rentals, swimming, and (during the winter) snowmobiling 
and cross-country skiing. It is mostly surrounded by the Allegany Indian 
Reservation and to the south by the Allegheny National Forest. Western 
New York is also known as the home of the Chautauqua Institution near Jamestown, 
New York. Jamestown is also home to the Lucille Ball-Desi Arnaz Museum. 
A small, but important, historic site is the Holland Land Office in Batavia, 
New York. Many towns along a nationally-important historic site, the Erie 
Canal, have lovely waterfront parks and bike trails. The Genesee Country 
Village and Museum in Mumford, New York is a well-known living history 
museum. The George Eastman House is in Rochester, and is the world's oldest 
photography museum. The Theodore Roosevelt Inaugural National Historic 
Site, known locally as the Wilcox Mansion, is in Buffalo. It is the site 
of the first presidential inauguration of Theodore Roosevelt following 
the assassination of President William McKinley who had been attending 
the Pan-American Exposition in Buffalo in 1901. Darien Lake, a theme park 
and concert venue in Genesee County, is also a popular summertime destination, 
drawing in crowds from all over Western and Central New York, as well as 
from southern Ontario.[citation needed] It has benefited from its location 
about halfway between Buffalo and Rochester and is one of the region's 
most successful concert venues. Western New York is represented by two 
major league sports teams: the Buffalo Bills of the NFL and the Buffalo 
Sabres of the NHL. The Bills play their home football games at New Era 
Field, the largest sports stadium in all of New York State, located just 
south of the city of Buffalo in Orchard Park. The Bills are the only team 
to reach the Super Bowl in four consecutive seasons (1990–1993) in NFL 
history. The Buffalo Sabres also have a strong following in Western New 
York, and are consistently ranked among the highest-rated local TV hockey 
markets and the highest-rated markets for NBC/NBCSN regular season games.[18][19][20] 
Primarily because of the strong regional interest in the team, in 2016 
MSG Western New York was launched. The regional sports network is a sub-feed 
of the MSG Network, but is tilted towards Western New York sports. The 
Sabres reached the Stanley Cup Finals in 1975 and 1999. The Toronto Maple 
Leafs and Ottawa Senators are the Sabres' biggest rivals. On January 1, 
2008, the Sabres played the Pittsburgh Penguins in the inaugural Winter 
Classic at Ralph Wilson Stadium (now New Era Field). This was the first 
ever regular-season NHL game held outdoors to be played in the United States.[21] 
Three Minor League Baseball teams play in Western New York: the Buffalo 
Bisons and Rochester Red Wings, both in the AAA International League-North 
Division, and affiliates of the Toronto Blue Jays and Minnesota Twins, 
respectively.[22][23] With the third being the Batavia Muckdogs play in 
the short-season class A New York–Penn League; Batavia was the site of 
the league's founding in 1939, and the Muckdogs are the last remaining 
charter member of the league, with the team seeking an exit from Western 
New York because of declining support. Collegiate summer baseball has an 
extensive presence in the area. The New York Collegiate Baseball League 
has several teams in Western New York: the Niagara Power, Wellsville Nitros, 
Alfred Thunder, Geneva Red Wings, Olean Oilers and Webster Yankees, and 
an additional collegiate summer baseball team, the current incarnation 
of the Jamestown Jammers, plays in the Perfect Game Collegiate Baseball 
League. The Southwestern New York Men's Baseball League, a weekly adult 
amateur Town Team Baseball league spun off from the Pennsylvania-based 
Alle—Catt Baseball league in 2014, fields teams in Cattaraugus, Wyoming 
and Allegany Counties.[citation needed] Additionally, basketball fans in 
both Rochester and Buffalo have minor league franchises to support, with 
the Rochester Razorsharks and Buffalo 716ers both playing in the Premier 
Basketball League.[24] Western New York has several teams that participate 
in semi-professional and amateur football. The Northeastern Football Alliance 
hosts teams in Buffalo, Jamestown, Olean and Lyndonville; the Premier Amateur 
Football League operates a team in South Buffalo.[25] The Buffalo Sabres 
minor league affiliate, the Rochester Americans, play in the American Hockey 
League.[26] The Western New York region is also represented by the Buffalo 
Beauts, a professional Women's hockey team that plays in the National Women's 
Hockey League.[27] Lacrosse, the national sport of the native Iroquois, 
is popular in the region, with the Buffalo Bandits and Rochester Knighthawks 
both perennial contenders in the National Lacrosse League. Lacrosse fans 
can watch the Rochester Rattlers of Major League Lacrosse during the summer 
months or attend box lacrosse games in arenas on the Seneca reservations. 
Western New York currently does not have a team in Major League Soccer 
(occasionally considered the fifth major league on the American sporting 
landscape), although Rochester had been mentioned in the past as a candidate 
for a new expansion franchise. This was due to the relative success of 
the Rochester Rhinos. However, in recent years the Rhinos have seen a downturn 
in attendance due to a number of factors.[28] The Rhinos are something 
of a regional team in Western New York, though at nowhere near the popularity 
of the Bills or Sabres.[citation needed] The Rhinos are best known as being 
the only non-MLS team to win the US Open Cup since that competition was 
opened to MLS teams. Western New York is represented in National Women's 
Soccer League by the Western New York Flash, a team that originally began 
play in the W-league in 2008. The Flash, like the Rhinos, plays its home 
games at Sahlen's Stadium in Rochester but are based out of Suburban Buffalo. 
U.S. soccer star Abby Wambach is a member of the Flash. The Western New 
York region is home to one indoor soccer franchise, the Rochester Lacers 
who played in the Major Indoor Soccer League as well as the outdoor soccer 
club FC Buffalo who compete in the NPSL. Western New York is home to many 
different golf coursees and country clubs including: Grover Cleveland Golf 
Course, Niagara Falls Country Club, Hyde Park Golf Club, The Park Country 
Club, Beaver Island State Park Golf Course, and River Oak Golf Club, among 
others. A number of Motorsports tracks operate in Western New York. The 
most prominent of these is Holland Speedway, a NASCAR-sanctioned track 
(currently hosting races in the Whelen All-American Series). Other, generally 
dirt, tracks include Stateline Speedway in Busti, Little Valley Speedway 
in Little Valley, Freedom Raceway in Freedom, Chapel Hill Raceway in Humphrey, 
Ransomville Speedway in Ransomville and Canandaigua Motorsports Park in 
Canandaigua. The last of these is the location in which NASCAR driver Tony 
Stewart ran over and killed rival racer Kevin Ward Jr. in 2014 during a 
sprint car race. College hockey also has a following, with Canisius College, 
Niagara University, and Rochester Institute of Technology competing at 
the Division I level and several other teams (including most of the SUNY 
schools) competing in Division III and/or the ACHA. College basketball 
has several teams in the area. The four teams in Division I are known as 
the "Big 4" and include the Canisius Golden Griffins, Niagara Purple Eagles, 
UB Bulls, and St. Bonaventure Bonnies. College football is much more sparse; 
only one team competes at the Division I Bowl Subdivision, the State University 
of New York at Buffalo's UB Bulls. Erie Community College fields a team 
in junior college football known as the Kats, while Buffalo State, Brockport 
State, The University of Rochester, St. John Fisher College, Alfred State 
and Alfred University field teams at the Division III level. Public high 
school athletic teams compete in sections 5 (Rochester area) and 6 (Buffalo 
area) of the New York State Public High School Athletic Association. Western 
New York Roman Catholic high schools compete in the Monsignor Martin Athletic 
