The West Virginia Power is a minor league baseball team of the South Atlantic 
League, and is the Class A affiliate of the Pittsburgh Pirates. They are 
located in Charleston, West Virginia. The team plays their home games at 
Appalachian Power Park; which opened in 2005 and currently seats 4,500 
fans. The history of professional baseball in Charleston, dates back to 
1910, and a team known as the Charleston Statesmen of the long-forgotten 
Class D Virginia Valley League. In 1911, the Statesmen moved to the Class 
D Mountain State League, and then folded after that year. A new team, the 
Charleston Senators was formed in 1914 and lasted three seasons in the 
Class D Ohio State League. In 1931, a new Senators team joined the Class 
C Mid-Atlantic League as an affiliate of the Cincinnati Reds. This team 
lasted until 1943. In 1949, the Senators were reformed as a member of the 
Class A Central League. In 1952, the city was granted a franchise in the 
Triple-A American Association. At first, this team was affiliated with 
the Chicago White Sox, then the Detroit Tigers, and finally the Washington 
Senators. In 1958, the Charleston Senators won the American Association 
championship. The franchise ceased operations after the 1960 season. In 
1961, the city had no team, but the Triple-A International League San Juan 
Marlins, affiliated with the St. Louis Cardinals, moved to the city at 
mid-season due to a hurricane which destroyed their ballpark; The Marlins 
returned to Puerto Rico after the season. In 1962, the Charleston Indians, 
affiliated with the Cleveland Indians, moved to the city in the Class-A 
Eastern League, and in 1963 that league was elevated to Double-A. The team 
folded after the 1964 season. Baseball returned to the city in 1971 with 
the Charleston Charlies of the International League. The Charlies played 
in the International League from 1971 to 1983. The team was the relocated 
Columbus Jets. The Charlies were affiliated with the Pittsburgh Pirates, 
Houston Astros, Texas Rangers, and finally the Cleveland Indians. The team 
won the league championship in 1973 and 1977. The Charlies left for Maine 
following the 1983 season, and, after several moves, the team today is 
now known as the Scranton Wilkes-Barre Yankees. Today, the Power sell nostalgic 
"throwback" merchandise from the Pittsburgh-affiliated era of the Charlies, 
which is generally considered the pinnacle of the baseball in the city. 
In 1987, the city resumed minor league baseball after a three-year absence. 
The new team was first called the Charleston Wheelers, so named for the 
city's history of stern- and side-wheeled boats. The Wheelers began as 
a co-op team, with players from several Major League Baseball franchises 
including the Los Angeles Dodgers, Detroit Tigers, Chicago White Sox, Chicago 
Cubs, Philadelphia Phillies, and Atlanta Braves. In 1988, the franchise 
became the Chicago Cubs' third full-season Class A franchise (the other 
two being Peoria in the Midwest League and Winston-Salem in the Carolina 
League). The only two players on that 1988 squad to reach the Major Leagues 
were SS Alex Arias and C Matt Walbeck. The Wheelers won the Class A South 
Atlantic League championship in 1990, the only league title for the franchise. 
By that point, they had changed affiliation to the Cincinnati Reds. In 
late 1993, the Wheelers were purchased from then-owner Dennis Bastien by 
a conglomerate of owners. The team changed its name to the Charleston Alley 
Cats in 1995 and switched colors from blue and white, with green trim, 
to grey and red, with black trim. The team was purchased in 2001 by Tom 
Dickson and Sherrie Myers. In 1995, the team changed affiliation to the 
Kansas City Royals, again in 2001 to the Toronto Blue Jays, to the Milwaukee 
Brewers after the 2004 season, and finally joined the Pirates in 2009. 
Prior to the 2005 season, they adopted their current West Virginia Power 
name. To quote the team's announcement following their decision to change 
the team name: "West Virginia is and will continue to be recognized as 
one of the leading energy providers for the country. The energy production 
from coal, natural gas, and hydro-electric sources, combined with the fact 
that Charleston serves as the center for the state's political and economic 
powers led us to the name of the team. We felt it was extremely important 
that the name reflect the entire region and are excited about the tremendous 
marketing opportunities that will go along with the name." The Power won 
the 2007 SAL Northern Division title, but lost in the league championship 
series to the Columbus Catfish in three-straight games. Pitchers Catchers 
Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches 7-day disabled list * On Pittsburgh 
Pirates 40-man roster # Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted list 
§ Suspended list † Temporary inactive list Roster updated September 4, 
2016 Transactions → More MiLB rosters → Pittsburgh Pirates minor league 
players The Alley Cats and their predecessors played in Watt Powell Park 
in the Kanawha City neighborhood of Charleston. Seating approximately 4,500 
fans, Watt Powell Park was bordered by MacCorkle Avenue on the front (north) 
side, 35th Street on the east, and South Park Road on the west. On the 
south side of the park, a ridge of hills formed a natural boundary. Fans 
who would otherwise have had to pay to see the games periodically watched 
the action from a CSX railroad line hard up against the south wall of the 
stadium. The Power now plays its home games in Appalachian Power Park at 
the east edge of downtown Charleston, a little more than a mile across 
the Kanawha River from the former site of Watt Powell Park. Most of the 
financing for the $25 million stadium came from the state, and the city, 
although the ownership team put up approximately $5 million. The original 
cost of the ballpark was supposed to be $20 million but cost overruns put 
the figure at $25 million. The city's share came mostly from the sale of 
Watt Powell Park to the nearby University of Charleston, which immediately 
sold two-thirds of the land to Charleston Area Medical Center, the region's 
largest hospital. Originally, the new park was to be completed for the 
2004 season, but politically induced delays in securing state funds forced 
construction to be put off for a year. The new park opened in April 2005. 
