West Palm Beach is a city in and the county seat of Palm Beach County, 
Florida, United States.[4] It is one of the three main cities in South 
Florida. The population was 99,919 at the 2010 census. The University of 
Florida Bureau of Economic and Business Research (BEBR) estimates a 2014 
population of 104,031, a 4.1% increase from 2010. It is the oldest municipality 
in the Miami metropolitan area, having been incorporated as a city two 
years before Miami in November 1894. West Palm Beach is located approximately 
68 miles (109 km) north of Downtown Miami. It is a principal city of the 
Miami metropolitan area, which was home to an estimated 6,012,331 people 
at the 2015 census. The beginning of the historic period in south Florida 
is marked by Juan Ponce de León's first contact with native people in 1513. 
Europeans found a thriving native population, which they categorized into 
separate tribes: the Mayaimi in the Lake Okeechobee Basin and the Jaega 
and Ais people in the East Okeechobee area and on the east coast north 
of the Tequesta. When the Spanish arrived, there were perhaps about 20,000 
Native Americans in south Florida. By 1763, when the English gained control 
of Florida, the native peoples had all but been wiped out through war, 
enslavement, or European diseases.[5] Other native peoples from Alabama 
and Georgia moved into Florida in the early 18th century. They were of 
varied ancestry, but Europeans called them all "Creeks." In Florida, they 
were known as the Seminole and Miccosukee Indians. The Seminoles clashed 
with American settlers over land and over escaped slaves who found refuge 
among them. They resisted the government's efforts to move them to the 
Indian Territory west of the Mississippi. Between 1818 and 1858, three 
wars were fought between Seminoles and the United States government. By 
1858, there were very few Seminoles remaining in Florida.[6] The area that 
was to become West Palm Beach was settled in the late 1870s and 1880s by 
a few hundred settlers who called the vicinity "Lake Worth Country." These 
settlers were a diverse community from different parts of the United States 
and the world. They included founding families such at the Potters and 
the Lainharts, who would go on to become leading members of the business 
community in the fledgling city. The first white settlers in Palm Beach 
County lived around Lake Worth, then an enclosed freshwater lake, named 
for Colonel William Jenkins Worth, who had fought in the Second Seminole 
War in Florida in 1842. Most settlers engaged in the growing of tropical 
fruits and vegetables for shipment the north via Lake Worth and the Indian 
River. By 1890, the U.S. Census counted over 200 people settled along Lake 
Worth in the vicinity of what would become West Palm Beach. The area at 
this time also boasted a hotel, the "Cocoanut House", a church, and a post 
office. The city was platted by Henry Flagler as a community to house the 
servants working in the two grand hotels on the neighboring island of Palm 
Beach, across Lake Worth in 1893, coinciding with the arrival of the Florida 
East Coast railroad. Flagler paid two area settlers, Captain Porter and 
Louie Hillhouse, a combined sum of $45,000 for the original town site, 
stretching from Clear Lake to Lake Worth. On November 5, 1894, 78 people 
met at the "Calaboose" (the first jail and police station located at Clematis 
St. and Poinsettia, now Dixie Hwy.) and passed the motion to incorporate 
the Town of West Palm Beach in what was then Dade County (now Miami-Dade 
County).[7] This made West Palm Beach the first incorporated municipality 
in Dade County and in South Florida. The town council quickly addressed 
the building codes and the tents and shanties were replaced by brick, brick 
veneer, and stone buildings. The city grew steadily during the 1890s and 
the first two decades of the 20th century, most residents were engaged 
in the tourist industry and related services or winter vegetable market 
and tropical fruit trade. In 1909, Palm Beach County was formed by the 
Florida State Legislature and West Palm Beach became the county seat. In 
1916, a new neo-classical courthouse was opened, which has been painstakingly 
restored back to its original condition, and is now used as the local history 
museum. The city grew rapidly in the 1920s as part of the Florida land 
boom. The population of West Palm Beach quadrupled from 1920 to 1927, and 
all kinds of businesses and public services grew along with it. Many of 
the city's landmark structures and preserved neighborhoods were constructed 
during this period. Originally, Flagler intended for his Florida East Coast 
Railway to have its terminus in West Palm, but after the area experienced 
a deep freeze, he chose to extend the railroad to Miami instead. The land 
boom was already faltering when city was devastated by the 1928 Okeechobee 
hurricane. The Depression years of the 1930s were a quiet time for the 
area, which saw slight population growth and property values lower than 
during the 1920s. The city only recovered with the onset of World War II, 
which saw the construction of Palm Beach Air Force Base, which brought 
thousands of military personnel to the city. The base was vital to the 
allied war effort, as it provided an excellent training facility and had 
unparalleled access to North Africa for a North American city. Also during 
World War II, German U-Boats sank dozens of merchant ships and oil tankers 
just off the coast of West Palm Beach. Nearby Palm Beach was under black 
out conditions to minimize night visibility to German U-boats. The 1950s 
saw another boom in population, partly due to the return of many soldiers 
and airmen who had served in the vicinity during the war. Also, the advent 
of air conditioning encouraged growth, as year-round living in a tropical 
climate became more acceptable to northerners. West Palm Beach became the 
one of the nation's fastest growing metropolitan areas during the 1950s; 
the city's borders spread west of Military Trail and south to Lake Clarke 
Shores. However, many of the city's residents still lived within a narrow 
six-block wide strip from the south to north end. The neighborhoods were 
strictly segregated between White and African-American populations, a legacy 
that the city still struggles with today. The primary shopping district 
remained downtown, centered around Clematis Street. In the 1960s, Palm 
Beach County's first enclosed shopping mall, the Palm Beach Mall, and an 
indoor arena were completed. These projects led to a brief revival for 
the city, but in the 1970s and 1980s crime continued to be a serious issue 
and suburban sprawl continued to drain resources and business away from 
the old downtown area. By the early 1990s there were very high vacancy 
rates downtown, and serious levels of urban blight. Since the 1990s, developments 
such as CityPlace and the preservation and renovation of 1920s architecture 
in the nightlife hub of Clematis Street have seen a downtown resurgence 
in the entertainment and shopping district. The city has also placed emphasis 
on neighborhood development and revitalization, in historic districts such 
as Northwood, Flamingo Park, and El Cid. Some neighborhoods still struggle 
with blight and crime, as well as lowered property values caused by the 
Great Recession, which hit the region particularly hard. Since the recovery, 
multiple new developments have been completed. The Palm Beach Mall, located 
at the Interstate 95/Palm Beach Lakes Boulevard interchange became abandoned 
as downtown revitalized - the very mall that initiated the original abandonment 
of the downtown. The mall was then redeveloped into the Palm Beach Fashion 
Outlets in February 2014. A station for All Aboard Florida, a high speed 
passenger rail service serving Miami, Fort Lauderdale, West Palm Beach, 
and Orlando, is under construction as of July 2015. According to the U.S. 
Army Corps of Engineers, the West Palm Beach Canal (C-51)/Stormwater Treatment 
Area (STA)1 East project was authorized by the U.S. Congress under the 
Flood Control Acts of 1948, 1954, 1962, 1968, and the Water Resources Development 
Act (WRDA) of 1996. The project is located in Palm Beach County and runs 
east/west from West Palm Beach at Lake Worth to Water Conservation Area 
(WCA) No. 1 (Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge). The authorized project 
will provide 30-year flood protection to the urbanized eastern basin and 
10-year flood protection to the western basin. All eastern basin features 
have been completed.[8] During mediation of the Everglades water quality 
litigation, a technical plan was developed for resolution of the litigation. 
The technical plan included a substantially modified C-51 project. The 
modified plan expands the original 1,600-acre floodwater detention area 
into a 6,500-acre stormwater detention area. In addition to the flood damage 
reduction benefits provided by the original project, the modified plan 
provides water quality treatment, reduction of damaging freshwater discharges 
to Lake Worth, and increased water supply for the Everglades and other 
users.[8] According to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the total estimated 
cost of the West Palm Beach Canal (C51) is $375.47 million, with an estimated 
$345.04 million as the U.S. Federal Government cost share. $1.05 million 
was appropriated for this project by the U.S. Congress in Fiscal Year 2015. 
The Fiscal Year 2016 Budget Request from the U.S. President to the U.S. 
Congress was for $1 million.[8] According to the United States Census Bureau, 
this city has a total area of 58.2 square miles (151 km2), of which 55.1 
square miles (143 km2) is land and 3.1 square miles (8.0 km2) (5.26%) is 
water. Due to vast areas of wetland immediately to the west of the city's 
downtown, growth took place to the north and south in a linear fashion. 
Until the 1960s, the city was no more than several blocks wide but over 
100 blocks in length. Large scale development finally expanded to the west 
of the city with improved access and drainage in the 1960s. However, the 
city boundaries were not expanded much with the exception of the "Water 
Catchment Area", an uninhabited area in the northwest part of the city. 
Known as Grassy Waters, it now serves as a reservoir for the city drinking 
water as well as a nature preserve.[9] Bel Air Historic District: Developed 
from 1925 to 1935 as a neighborhood for tradesmen and real estate salesmen 
who helped develop Palm Beach County, some of Belair was originally a pineapple 
plantation owned by Richard Hone. Hones's frame vernacular house, built 
around 1895, still stands at 211 Plymouth Road. After Hone was murdered 
in 1902, his property was sold to George Currie, who created Currie Development 
Co. But before it was developed, the land was sold to William Ohlhaber, 
who raised coconut palms and ferns. Eventually, Ohlhaber platted the subdivision 
and sold off lots. The first house built in the subdivision was Ohlhaber's 
mission-style home at 205 Pilgrim. Ohlhaber's grandson said Ohlhaber bought 
the tract to provide dockage for his 90-foot (27 m) yacht, but the yacht 
ran aground in the Gulf of Mexico and never reached Lake Worth. In 1947 
Hone's house was bought by Max Brombacher, Henry Flagler's chief engineer, 
and it remains in the Brombacher family today. Belair became West Palm 
Beach's fourth historic district in August 1993. Central Park: Central 
Park is a collective name for several subdivisions north of Southern Boulevard. 
It originally was part of the Estates of South Palm Beach (which went from 
Wenonah Place to Pilgrim Road east of Dixie Highway). Like other West Palm 
Beach neighborhoods, the Estates of South Palm Beach boomed after Henry 
Flagler's descent on Palm Beach. In 1884, James W. Copp, a bachelor in 
the boating business, borrowed $367.20 from Valentine Jones to buy the 
land. The ownership of what is now known as Central Park changed hands 
many times before being developed. Around 1919, the tropical wilderness 
was transformed into an exclusive neighborhood with curbed roads, sidewalks 
and a pier (at the foot of what is now Southern Boulevard). The neighborhood 
became part of West Palm Beach in 1926, and was named a city historic district 
in December 1993. In 1999 the neighborhood was listed in the National Register 
of Historic Places. El Cid: Noted for its Mediterranean revival and mission-style 
homes, El Cid developed in the height of Florida's real estate boom. In 
the late 19th century, most of the land north of Sunset Road was pineapple 
fields, but the crop dwindled in the early 20th century. Pittsburgh socialite 
Jay Phipps subdivided the old pineapple fields in the 1920s. He named it 
El Cid, after the celebrated Spanish hero, Rodrigo Diaz de Bivar, who conquered 
Valencia in 1094. He was called "Cid", meaning "lord". El Cid became a 
city historic district in June 1993. In 1995 the neighborhood was listed 
in the National Register of Historic Places. Flamingo Park: Originally 
a pineapple plantation, Flamingo Park was established by local contractors 
and developers, who saw the potential in this area—one of the highest coastal 
ridge sections from downtown West Palm Beach to Miami. Some ridge houses 
even had ocean views from upper floors. Houses cost about $10,000 to $18,000 
in the boom era, and many buyers were owners of shops and businesses on 
fashionable Dixie Highway nearby. Recently, residents rallied to have stop 
signs installed throughout the neighborhood and have banded together to 
ward off commercial and industrial zoning. Property values are rising as 
residents renovate and restore Spanish-style houses. Most of the homes 
in the neighborhood, developed from 1921 to 1930, are mission style, but 
nearly every style is represented. There are many Mediterranean revival-style 
houses along the high ridge line. Only two buildings in the historic district 
are known to have been designed by architects: 701 Flamingo Drive designed 
by Harvey and Clarke, and the Armory Arts Center designed by William Manly 
King. The neighborhood became a West Palm Beach historic district in January 
1993 and was listed in the National Register of Historic Places in 2000. 
Grandview Heights: One of the city's oldest neighborhoods still intact, 
Grandview Heights was built as an extension of Palm Beach Heights from 
around 1910 to 1925. Almost all of Palm Beach Heights and half of Grandview 
Heights was demolished in 1989 to make way for the proposed Downtown/Uptown 
project, which became CityPlace. Grandview Heights originally attracted 
construction workers who helped build the luxury hotels, ministers and 
store owners. The neighborhood has one of the city's best collection of 
early craftsman-style bungalows, as well as some modest, Mediterranean 
revival-style homes. The neighborhood became a West Palm Beach historic 
district in 1995 and was listed in the National Register of Historic Places 
in 1999. Mango Promenade: Mango Promenade became a West Palm Beach historic 
district in 1995 and was listed in the National Register of Historic Places 
in 1999. Lies just south of Palm Beach Atlantic University. Northboro Park: 
An expansion of Old Northwood, Northboro Park was mostly custom houses 
for upper-middle-class professionals. Most of the houses are Mediterranean 
revival, mission and frame vernacular. Developed from 1923 to 1940, the 
neighborhood became the city's second historic district (November 1992) 
and the historic designation may soon expand north to 45th Street. The 
oldest building in the neighborhood is Northboro Elementary School at 36th 
Street and Spruce, built in 1925 by DaCamara and Chace. The demolition 
of Northboro Elementary School began in late 2009. The first home in Northboro 
Park is 418 36th St., built in 1923. Northwest: West Palm Beach's first 
historic district to be included on the National Register of Historic Places 
(February 1992), the Northwest neighborhood was first settled in 1894, 
when the black community was moved from the Styx in Palm Beach to West 
Palm Beach. It also served as the city's segregated black community from 
1929 to 1960 (along with Pleasant City). Northwest remains a predominantly 
black community but according to the city planning department, most middle- 
and upper-class blacks moved to other neighborhoods after desegregation. 
Tamarind and Rosemary Avenues were the commercial centers for blacks by 
1915, but most commercial buildings have been demolished or remodeled so 
the architecture is no longer significant. There are still good examples 
of late 19th- and early 20th-century American bungalow/craftsman-style 
homes in this neighborhood, which also has mission, shotgun, Bahamian vernacular 
and American Foursquare styles. The Alice Frederick Mickens house, at 801 
Fourth St., is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Mickens 
was a philanthropist and humanitarian who promoted education for black 
youth. Another notable house is the Gwen Cherry house at 625 Division Ave. 
Cherry, Florida's first black woman legislator and a resident of Miami, 
inherited the house from relative Mollie Holt, who built the house in 1926. 
Now it is the Palm Beach County Black Historical Society. The Northwest 
neighborhood was listed in the National Register of Historic Places in 
1992. The next year the neighborhood became a West Palm Beach historic 
district in 1993. Old Northwood Historic District: Old Northwood was developed 
from 1920 to 1927—the height of the city's real estate boom. The Pinewood 
Development Co., platted and developed the area. Old Northwood became a 
neighborhood of what was considered extravagant Mediterranean revival, 
mission and frame vernacular houses, at $30,000 to $36,000. The buyers 
were professionals, entrepreneurs and tradesmen. Among them was Dunkle, 
who was mayor of West Palm Beach. There are houses here designed by notable 
architects John Volk (best known for his Palm Beach houses), William Manly 
King (who designed Palm Beach High School and the Armory Arts Center) and 
Henry Steven Harvey (whose Seaboard Railroad Passenger Station on Tamarind 
Avenue is listed in the National Register of Historic Places). The neighborhood 
became a West Palm Beach historic district in 1991 and listed in the National 
Register of Historic Places in June 1994. Northwood Hills Historic District: 
On August 4, 2003, the City Commission designated the Northwood Hills neighborhood 
as the 13th Historic District in the City of West Palm Beach. Northwood 
Hills comprises the area from 29th Street on the South to 39th Court on 
the North. The east side of Windsor is the Western boundary, and Greenwood 
Avenue is the Eastern boundary. The Neighborhood Association has worked 
several years to achieve the distinction of historic designation. This 
is the first district to be designated since 1996. Northwood Hills has 
a number of Mission Revival houses, a significant collection of Post-World 
War II architecture, a unique street layout, and one of the highest elevations 
in the city. The Northwood Hills neighborhood has also elected to allow 
the establishment of Bed and Breakfast establishments within the neighborhood. 
Prospect Park: Promoted as a high-end neighborhood patterned after the 
prominent Prospect Park district in Brooklyn, this area consisted of mostly 
smaller estates for prominent businesspeople and northern investors. The 
neighborhood has a high concentration of Mediterranean revival and Mission 
revival houses. It was developed from 1920 to 1935 and became a city historic 
district in November 1993. West Northwood Historic District: Cashing in 
on the real estate boom, developers of West Northwood built speculative 
and custom houses for upper-middle-class professionals from 1925 to '27. 
Dominant architectural styles are Mediterranean revival and mission. Although 
the area was declining, that has reversed in recent years, as more investors 
buy and restore the houses. West Northwood became a city historic district 
in August 1993. [10] The estimated 2012 population of West Palm Beach and 
the immediately adjacent Census Designated Places is 134,795. Much of this 
urbanized area lies directly west of the city and includes the neighborhoods 
of Westgate, Belvedere Homes, Lakeside Green, Century Village, Schall Circle, 
Lake Belvedere Estates, Plantation Mobile Homes, and Golden Lakes. These 
neighborhoods are not technically within the boundaries of West Palm Beach, 
being located in unincorporated Palm Beach County. However, residents possess 
a "West Palm Beach" address and urban services, such as police, fire, parks, 
water and sewer, are provided by a combination of Palm Beach County and 
the City of West Palm Beach in these areas. The City of West Palm Beach 
also provides water and sewer service to the Town of Palm Beach. The contiguous 
"urbanized" area, of which West Palm Beach is the core city, includes most 
of eastern Palm Beach County and has an estimated 2008 population of around 
1,250,000.[11] Key incorporated cities and their populations within the 
West Palm Beach urbanized area include: Downtown skyline at night West 
Palm Beach skyline from Okeechobee Blvd. Flagler Drive Downtown shops on 
Clematis Street Australian Avenue skyline on Clear Lake Olive Avenue and 
Datura Street North Bridge Centre View of Palm Beach County Courthouse 
from Centennial Square Hibiscus Street, downtown West Palm Beach has a 
tropical rainforest climate (Köppen Af), with mean temperatures in all 
months above 64.4 °F (18 °C).[13][14] This tropical climate allows for 
many species of tropical plants throughout the city. The wet season—May 
through October—is hot, humid, and wet. The average window for 90 °F (32 °C) 
temperatures is April 20 through October 8, but temperatures of 100 °F 
(38 °C) or higher have only occurred four times since record-keeping began 
in 1888. During this period, more than half of the days bring afternoon 
thunderstorms and sea breezes that cool the air for the rest of the day.[15] 
The dry season—November through April—is warm and mostly dry, with 80 °F 
(27 °C) temperatures remaining fairly commonplace even from December through 
February. However, the area experiences occasional cold fronts during this 
period, with daytime temperatures below 65 °F (18 °C) and lows dropping 
to 45 °F (7 °C) or further. These fronts last only a few days before high 
temperatures return to the 70s to 80s and low temperatures to the mid-60s.[15] 
During a severe and prolonged cold snap in January 2010, the city recorded 
12 consecutive days of low temperatures at or below 45 °F (7 °C). Nine 
of the twelve days were below 40 °F (4 °C), with several mornings at or 
near freezing.[16] Annual average precipitation is 63 in (1,600 mm), making 
West Palm Beach the fourth wettest city in the country after Mobile, Alabama; 
Pensacola, Florida; and New Orleans.[17] Most of the precipitation occurs 
during the wet season of May through October, mainly as short-lived heavy 
afternoon thunderstorms. Occasionally, stalled cold fronts in the fall 
and spring can also lead to heavy and prolonged rainfall. The only record 
of snow was on January 18, 1977, when flurries were reported. West Palm 
Beach has an average of 133 wet days and 234 sunny days annually. The hurricane 
season is officially from June 1 through November 30, with the peak months 
being August, September, and October. The city has received direct or near 
direct hits from hurricanes in 1928, 1947, 1949, 1964, 1965, 1979, 1992, 
1999, 2004, and 2005.[15] As of the census of 2010, there were 54,179 households, 
out of which 20.8% were vacant. As of 2010, 22.4% had children under the 
age of 18 living with them, 34.3% were married couples living together, 
13.6% had a female householder with no husband present, and 47.5% were 
non-families. 37.6% of all households were made up of individuals and 11.8% 
had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average 
household size was 2.26 and the average family size was 3.02. As of 2000, 
the population was spread out with 21.3% under the age of 18, 9.8% from 
18 to 24, 31.5% from 25 to 44, 21.4% from 45 to 64, and 16.0% who were 
65 years of age or older. The median age was 37 years. For every 100 females 
there were 97.3 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 
94.8 males. In 2000, the median income for a household in the city was 
$36,774, and the median income for a family was $42,074. Males had a median 
income of $30,221 versus $26,473 for females. The per capita income for 
the city was $23,188. About 14.5% of families and 18.9% of the population 
were below the poverty line, including 29.2% of those under the age of 
18 and 14.8% of those ages 65 and older. As of 2000, those who spoke only 
English at home accounted for 72.49% of all residents, while those who 
spoke Spanish made up 17.71%, French Creole (mainly Haitian Creole) 4.46%, 
1.27% spoke French, German was spoken by 0.62%, and Italian speakers made 
up 0.52% of the population.[21] K–12 public education is administrated 
by the School District of Palm Beach County, which is the eleventh-largest 
school district in the United States by enrollment.[22] Public schools 
include: Private schools in the area include:[23] The original Palm Beach 
Junior College building was restored and is now adjacent to the campus 
of the Dreyfoos School of the Arts, a magnet performing and visual arts 
high school. It is now a satellite building of Palm Beach State College 
Palm Beach Atlantic University (PBAU), a four-year private Christian university 
with approximately 3,200 students, is located in the city on seven blocks 
within the south end of downtown. The campus includes several historic 
structures converted to academic use. PBAU has recently added schools of 
nursing and of pharmacy. Northwood University formally had a residential 
campus in West Palm Beach, Florida. The campus now belongs to Keiser University, 
a regionally accredited school that offers a variety of degrees at the 
Associate, Bachelor, Master, and Doctoral levels. It is one of their 16 
Florida campuses. Various private for-profit institutions are located in 
the city, including the Lincoln College of Technology (formerly known as 
New England Institute of Technology) and Florida Culinary Institute, owned 
by the New Jersey-based Lincoln Group of Schools. The Mandel Public Library 
of West Palm Beach serves the city.[24] The new city public library opened 
in April 2009 at 411 Clematis Street, replacing the 1962 building which 
stood at the intersection of Clematis and Flagler Drive, along the Intracoastal 
Waterfront. Named for a Mandel Foundation grant received in 2012, the Mandel 
Public Library provides books, performances, classes, research, entertainment, 
technology, music and more. The Main Branch of the Palm Beach County Library 
System is also located in West Palm Beach, as well as the Okeechobee Branch 
Library.[25] Companies based in West Palm Beach include Florida Public 
Utilities, ION Media Networks, Ocwen, and The Palm Beach Post. Other major 
employers are Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne, Sikorsky Aircraft, General Dynamics, 
Cemex, and CSC.[26] Norton Museum of Art: is the largest art museum in 
Florida and also organizes traveling exhibits. The permanent collection 
features 19th and 20th century European and American art, Chinese, contemporary 
art and photography. Raymond F. Kravis Center for the Performing Arts: 
Built in 1992, the Kravis Center hosts performances of music, dance, opera 
and theatre. Meyer Amphitheater: An abandoned Holiday Inn, demolished on 
New Year's Eve 1993 and transformed into an outdoor waterfront amphitheater. 
Richard and Pat Johnson Palm Beach County History Museum: is operated and 
maintained by the Historical Society of Palm Beach County,[27] and is in 
the Historic 1916 Court House in downtown West Palm Beach. The museum provides 
access to Palm Beach County history through on-site investigation in the 
Research Library, on-line research on www.pbchistoryonline.org, the Public 
Programming Series and the Distinguished Lecture Series. The museum is 
free to visitors and offers Docent-led tours for adults and school groups. 
Palm Beach County Convention Center: A complex with 350,000 square feet 
(33,000 m2) of exhibit halls and meeting rooms in downtown West Palm Beach. 
Harriet Himmel Theater: is a multi-use theater and historic church, and 
is the cultural centerpiece of CityPlace The Carefree Theatre: Built in 
1940, in the historic Flamingo Park district, it was variously an art house 
cinema and alternative music performance venue until severely damaged by 
Hurricane Wilma. There is a Jewish community offering learning and cultural 
activities.[28][29] SunFest: an annual music, art, and waterfront festival 
in Florida, founded in 1982 to draw visitors to the area during the "shoulder 
season" of April and May. SunFest has an annual attendance of more than 
275,000 people. Artists who have performed include Wilco, Carrie Underwood, 
John Mayer, Ray Charles, James Brown, Ludacris, Nelly, Lenny Kravitz, Dizzy 
Gillespie, Bob Dylan, Kenny G, Earth Wind and Fire, Cyndi Lauper, Smashing 
Pumpkins, MGMT, and The Wailers. SunFest is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization.[30] 
Palm Beach International Film Festival Barrett-Jackson Collector Car Auction: 
Classic car auction held every March in the South Florida Expo Center. 
Palm Beach Opera West Palm Beach does not host any professional sports 
teams, but the Florida Panthers of the National Hockey League play at BB&T 
Center in Sunrise to the south. Major League Baseball's Miami Marlins, 
the National Football League's Miami Dolphins and the Miami Heat of the 
National Basketball Association all play in nearby Miami-Dade County. In 
the past West Palm Beach has hosted various professional teams such as 
Arena Football, minor league hockey and baseball as well as semi-pro football. 
Spring Training Baseball: The Miami Marlins and St. Louis Cardinals conduct 
spring training in suburban West Palm Beach in the town of Jupiter, Florida 
at Roger Dean Stadium. In the past West Palm Beach hosted the Atlanta Braves 
and Montreal Expos at the former Municipal Stadium and the Philadelphia 
Athletics and St. Louis Browns at Connie Mack Field, which was demolished 
in 1992. A newly built stadium, The Ballpark of The Palm Beaches, for spring 
training, which will accommodate both the Washington Nationals and Houston 
Astros, will make its debut in February 2017.[31] Collegiate Athletics: 
Palm Beach Atlantic University competes in NCAA Division II basketball, 
baseball and soccer. PBAU has recently purchased a large tract of land 
just west of downtown where there will be built a multi-use athletic stadium.[32] 
Indoor athletics play their home games at the Greene Complex which is an 
on campus arena. Florida Atlantic University's athletic programs are played 
in neighboring Boca Raton. FAU competes in the highest level of NCAA athletics 
including football, basketball, baseball, softball and tennis. Northwood 
University competes at the NAIA level, where their basketball coach Rollie 
Massimino, has given the athletic program national exposure. Professional 
Golf: PGA National Resort & Spa in suburban Palm Beach Gardens hosts the 
PGA Tour Honda Classic. Polo and Equestrian: Palm Beach Polo and Country 
Club counts 7 polo fields among its world-class facilities and many high-goal 
games are played in the area. The equestrian events at the Palm Beach International 
Equestrian Center are the world-renowned Winter Equestrian Festival, the 
Global Dressage Festival and over 40 weeks a year of equestrian competitions, 
hosted in Wellington. Tennis: The Delray Beach International Tennis Championships, 
a hard court stop on the ATP Tour, takes place annually in Delray Beach, 
slightly to the south of West Palm Beach. Croquet: The National Croquet 
Center has 12 full sized croquet lawns, making it the largest dedicated 
croquet facility in the world. It hosts several national championships 
and in May 2009 will host the World Championship when representatives of 
up to 25 countries will be competing for the Wimbledon Cup. BMX Racing: 
Okeeheelee park contains one of the most celebrated BMX race tracks in 
the state of Florida. Insured by USA BMX, the Okeeheelee track is host 
to State Qualifiers and National Races, it is also home to several National 
Champions. Clematis Street: is West Palm Beach's historic "main street" 
and shopping venue, home to Clematis by Night, an outdoor event held on 
the street with live music and food. CityPlace: Opened in 2000 on re-developed 
land where dilapidated single family homes and apartments once stood, CityPlace 
houses a multi-plex movie theater, night clubs (comedy, dance), restaurants, 
clothing and home-decor retail outlets and multi-story town houses and 
apartments. Antique Row: is a shopping district on the south side of the 
city along Dixie Highway. Architectural Digest, The New York Times, Art 
& Antiques, and House Beautiful have all noted Antique Row as one of the 
east coast's premier antique districts, considered the "antique design 
center" of Florida.[34] Northwood Village: is an historic commercial district 
north of downtown. The city invested money in rebuilding the streetscape 
and promoting the area as an arts district. Air: The city is served by 
Palm Beach International Airport, located in unincorporated Palm Beach 
County. The airport attracts people from all over the county as well as 
from the Treasure Coast and Space Coast counties to the north. In 2014 
there were over 6.5 million passengers who passed through the gates of 
PBIA making it the 52nd busiest airport in the nation.[35] Bicycle The 
city's flat terrain, paved streets, and year-round climate soon earned 
it the designation as the "bicyclingest town in the U.S.A.". The historic 
core consists of a dense grid of narrower streets, as laid out by Henry 
Flagler. Clematis Street was one-lane each direction with a speed limit 
of 12 mph, and the middle of the street between lanes was used to park 
bicycles.[36] Although the popularity of bicycling declined during the 
later half of the 20th century, it has recently increased in popularity. 
In addition, a bike share program, SkyBike, was introduced in 2015.[37] 
Highways: U.S. 1 passes though the city's downtown, commercial, and industrial 
districts. Interstate 95 bisects the city from north to south with multiple 
interchanges serving West Palm Beach, including an entrance to Palm Beach 
International Airport. Florida's Turnpike passes through West Palm Beach 
further west, connecting with the western suburbs of Royal Palm Beach and 
Wellington. State Road 80, running east-west, is a partial expressway, 
that runs from Interstate 95 to State Road 7. Rail: Tri-Rail commuter rail 
system serves the city from a historical station located on the west side 
of Tamarind Avenue, just east of I-95. Tri-Rail provides commuter rides 
north to Mangonia Park and south to Miami. Amtrak has daily trains arriving 
and departing to points north. CSX Transportation and the Florida East 
Coast Railway also serve the city. All Aboard Florida began track upgrades 
in 2015 in preparation for high-speed passenger service serving Miami, 
FL through Orlando, FL.[38] Trolley: There is a free downtown trolley that 
provides transportation around downtown including Clematis, City Place 
and Waterfront districts of the city. Bus: Greyhound Lines operates scheduled 
intercity bus service out of the train station on the west side of Tamarind 
Avenue. Palm Tran, the Palm Beach County municipal bus service, operates 
scheduled service throughout the city and the suburban areas of Palm Beach 
County. Port: The Port of Palm Beach is located on the northern edge of 
the city limits. It is the fourth busiest container port in Florida and 
the 18th busiest in the continental United States. In addition to intermodal 
capacity, the Port is a major modal point for the shipment of various goods[35] 
as well as being the home to several small passenger cruise lines. Water 
Taxi: As a waterfront city there is specific need for water transportation 
between points in the city and surrounding areas. Waterway transportation 
is available to and from the downtown Clematis Street District, Sailfish 
Marina Resort, waterfront attractions, Peanut Island and special events. 
Newspapers The Palm Beach Post is owned by Atlanta-based Cox Enterprises. 
Its name notwithstanding, the Post is based in West Palm Beach, not Palm 
Beach. The Post is the 57th highest daily circulation in the country, according 
to the 2007 BurrellesLuce survey, and is the city's sole daily newspaper. 
It serves Palm Beach County and the Treasure Coast, the area north of Palm 
Beach County that includes Martin and St. Lucie Counties. Palm Beach Daily 
News: sister publication of the Palm Beach Post serving the town of Palm 
Beach, it covers events and social affairs of the celebrities and wealthy 
residents of Palm Beach. Frequently extends coverage to events taking place 
in West Palm Beach. The Palm Beach Times: another daily newspaper covering 
the city, founded in 1998. South Florida Sun-Sentinel: is based in Fort 
Lauderdale and covers portions of Southern Palm Beach County. New Times 
Broward-Palm Beach is an alternative weekly publication serving West Palm 
Beach along with Fort Lauderdale. WPB Magazine is a quarterly publication 
serving West Palm Beach. Radio West Palm Beach is ranked as the 46th largest 
radio market in the country by Arbitron. Television West Palm Beach is 
ranked as the 38th largest television market in the country by Nielsen 
Media Research. The market is served by stations affiliated with major 
American networks including WPTV-TV/5 (NBC), WPEC/12(CBS), WTCN-CA/15(MYTV), 
WPBF/25 (ABC), WFLX/29 (FOX), WTVX/34 (CW), WXEL-TV/42 (PBS), WWHB/48 (Azteca), 
WFGC/61 (Ind.), WPXP/67 (ION) and WBWP/57 (MundoFox). The area's official 
Telemundo affiliate is WSCV in Miami, and WLTV is the area's Univision 
affiliate, also in Miami. In addition to those, many Miami/Ft. Lauderdale 
market TV and radio stations are also available and viewed in West Palm 
Beach. West Palm Beach has three sister cities, as designated by Sister 
Cities International: Violent crime: According to Florida Department of 
Law Enforcement (FDLE) statistics, West Palm Beach is experiencing a steep 
drop in major crimes. In the past decade, crime has dropped more in West 
Palm Beach than in any other major city (approximately 100,000 residents 
or more) in the state of Florida. In 1993, West Palm Beach was featured 
in a 60 Minutes segment on urban decay. At the time, 80% of downtown properties 
were vacant. Since then, the city has done much to improve its image, at 
least in the physical sense. Occupancy is high, and housing prices have 
risen rapidly. FDLE stats show that the total crime rate per 100,000 residents 
has dropped by more than 50% since 2000, from 13,880 that year to 6,571 
in 2008. In 2008 alone, there was a 17.9% drop in crime. Annual crime rates 
are always more than three times the national average. However, as of 2006, 
the city's crime average has been gradually decreasing while robbery was 
up 17 percent.[42] West Palm Beach's northern neighbor, Riviera Beach, 
has an even higher violent crime rate.[43] The following are the crime 
rates, per 100,000 people, for West Palm Beach as of 2005.[44] Dunbar Village: 
In 2007, a resident was gang-raped by Jakaris Taylor[45] and a group of 
3 other teenagers in one of the city's public housing developments, Dunbar 
Village Housing Projects, with her son forced to participate, drawing national 
