The Western Illinois Leathernecks are the teams and athletes that represent 
Western Illinois University, located in Macomb, Illinois, in NCAA Division 
I sports. The school's primary conference affiliation is with the Summit 
League; its football team is a member of the Division I FCS (formerly Division 
I-AA) Missouri Valley Football Conference. WIU's nickname, the Leathernecks, 
and its mascot, the English bulldog, are taken from the traditions of the 
United States Marine Corps. The university has had permission to use the 
official nickname and mascot of the Corps since 1927, when Ray Hanson, 
then-athletic director and coach of the baseball, basketball and football 
teams, gained permission to use the symbols as a homage to his service 
in that military branch during World War I.[2] Western Illinois University 
is the only non-military university to use a military nickname.[2] Since 
the fall semester of 2009, the men's and women's teams have been unified 
under the Leathernecks name;[3] previously, the women's teams and athletes 
at the school had been known as the Westerwinds. A member of The Summit 
League, Western Illinois University sponsors teams in ten men's and ten 
women's NCAA sanctioned sports:[4] Men's Teams Women's Teams The Western 
Illinois Leathernecks baseball team represents the university in NCAA Division 
I college baseball. The team is a member of The Summit League. It plays 
its home games at the 500-seat Alfred D. Boyer Stadium and are coached 
by Ryan Brownlee. The Western Illinois Leathernecks men's basketball team 
competes in NCAA Division I men's college basketball competition. The school's 
team is a member of The Summit League. The team plays it home games at 
5,139-seat Western Hall and are coached by Billy Wright.[5] The Western 
Illinois Leathernecks women's basketball team is a member of The Summit 
League, which is part of the National Collegiate Athletic Association's 
Division I. The team plays its home games at 5,139-seat Western Hall. The 
Western Illinois Leathernecks football program competes in the NCAA Division 
I Football Championship Subdivision (FCS) and are members of the Missouri 
Valley Football Conference. The team has made numerous NCAA Division I 
Football Championship Subdivision (formerly Division I-AA) playoff appearances. 
The Leathernecks have been ranked as high as number one and ranked number 
two numerous times. The team plays its home games at the 16,368 seat Hanson 
Field. The Western Illinois Leathernecks softball team is a member of The 
Summit League, which is part of the National Collegiate Athletic Association's 
Division I. The team plays its home games at 500-seat Mary Ellen McKee 
Softball Stadium. The team has appeared in eight Women's College World 
Series, in 1970, 1972, 1973, 1975, 1977, 1979, 1980 and 1982.[6] The name 
of the "official" fight song for Western Illinois University is "We’re 
Marching On". The Western Illinois University Marching Leathernecks is 
the marching band which represents Western Illinois University. "Colonel 
Rock" is the "official" live bulldog mascot for Western Illinois University. 
"Rocky" is the "official" costumed bulldog mascot for Western Illinois 
