The Western League was the name of several leagues in American minor league 
baseball. First, its earliest progenitor, which existed from 1885 to 1899, 
was the predecessor of the American League. Later, during the 20th century, 
there were four incarnations of the Western League, including a Class D 
loop that played from 1939–41 and an independent loop (outside of "organized 
baseball") that began play in 1995. This article, however, concentrates 
on the two Class A leagues that played from 1900–37 and from 1947–58. Minor 
League baseball went unclassified through 1901. From 1902 until 1911, Class 
A was the highest level in the minor leagues. In 1912, a new top tier, 
Class AA, was created; in 1936, a second tier, Class A1, came into being. 
In 1939, the Nebraska State League adopted the name for three seasons, 
before disbanding. Then, in 1946, the Class AA leagues were renamed AAA, 
and the A1 loops were renamed AA. Thus the Western League – whose clubs 
were actually located in the Great Plains, Rocky Mountain States, the Upper 
Midwest and the Upper Southwest – was a top-level minor league until 1911, 
then two levels below Major League Baseball through 1935, and three steps 
removed in 1936–37 and when it was revived in 1947 during the post-war 
minor league baseball boom. Its longest-serving franchise was located in 
Des Moines, Iowa, which joined the WL in 1900 and played continuously through 
1937, when the league shut down during the Great Depression. Des Moines 
then rejoined the reborn Western circuit when Colorado Senator Edwin C. 
Johnson founded it in 1947; this team, a Chicago Cubs affiliate called 
the Des Moines Bruins, then played for the final 12 years of the league's 
existence. The Western League reformed in 1947 with six teams: Denver Bears, 
Des Moines Bruins, Lincoln A's, Omaha Cardinals, Pueblo Dodgers and Sioux 
City Soos.[1] All six clubs were affiliated with major league farm systems. 
The WL expanded to eight teams in 1950, adding the Colorado Springs Sky 
Sox and Wichita Indians,[2] but the encroachment of televised baseball 
and major league franchise shifts into former AAA cities hit the league 
hard. In 1955, the Western League's two strongest franchises, the Denver 
Bears and the Omaha Cardinals, were admitted to the AAA American Association. 
The WL continued for four more seasons before folding in the autumn of 
1958. Its last champion, the Colorado Springs Sky Sox, attracted only 61,000 
fans for the season. In addition to the founding clubs and the Sky Sox, 
the postwar WL had teams in Albuquerque, Amarillo, Topeka, and Wichita. 
The new Western League formed as a Class B league in 1900. Charter teams 
were the: Denver Grizzlies, Des Moines Hawkeyes, Omaha Omahogs, Pueblo 
Indians, Sioux City Cornhuskers and St. Joseph Saints.[3] The teams in 
Pueblo and Sioux City folded. New teams in Colorado Springs, Colorado, 
and St. Paul, Minnesota, formed and joined the League. Teams from Kansas 
City, Missouri, and Minneapolis, Minnesota moved from the American League. 
The Minneapolis and St. Paul teams joined the American Association. New 
teams in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and Peoria, Illinois, formed and joined 
the League. The teams in Milwaukee, Kansas City, and Peoria folded. the 
Sioux City, Iowa team from the Iowa–South Dakota League joined the League. 
The Colorado Springs team, with a record of 22–48, moved to Pueblo, Colorado 
on July 15, where they had a record of 30–44. The St. Joseph team moved 
to the Western Association. A new team in Lincoln, Nebraska, formed and 
joined the League. Teams from Topeka, Kansas, and Wichita, Kansas, joined 
from the Western Association. The Pueblo team folded. A new team in St. 
Joseph, Missouri, formed and joined the League. The Wichita team, with 
a record of 15–9, moved to Pueblo, Colorado on May 22, Their record there 
was 77–66. The Pueblo team moved back to Wichita, Kansas. Denver defeated 
the Minneapolis team of the American Association 4 games to 1. Milwaukee 
of the American Association defeated Denver 4 games to 2. Wichita Jobbers 
renamed Wichita Wolves. Indianapolis of the American Association defeated 
Denver 4 games to 2. The Wichita team, with a record of 58–84, moved to 
Colorado Springs, Colorado on September 10. Their record there was 2–10. 
Louisville of the American Association defeated Omaha 4 games to 1. The 
Topeka team folded. A new team in Joplin, Missouri formed and joined the 
League. Colorado Springs moved back to Wichita. St. Joseph, with a record 
of 34–56, moved to Hutchinson, where their record was 32–24, on July 24. 
Sioux City moved to St. Joseph on August 5. Hutchinson defeated Joplin 
3 games to none for the second half title. Des Moines defeated Hutchinson 
4 games to 2 for the championship. The Denver and Lincoln teams folded. 
New teams in Sioux City, Iowa, and Topeka, Kansas, formed and joined the 
League. Hutchinson, with a record of 14–19, moved to Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 
on June 2, where they compiled a record of 19–18. Topeka, with a record 
of 19–13, moved to Hutchinson, Kansas, where they compiled a record of 
18–18, on June 2. The League suspended operations on July 7 due to World 
War I. The Hutchinson team folded. A new team was formed in Topeka, Kansas, 
and joined the League. Tulsa lead St. Joseph 3 games to 1 in the championship 
series when the series was cancelled due to bad weather. Wichita's Joe 
Wilhoit had a 69-game hitting streak, which remains the professional baseball 
record. Joplin moved to the Western Association. A new team formed in Denver, 
Colorado, and joined the League. Tulsa beat Mobile of the Southern Association 
4 games to 1, with 1 tie Sioux City moved to the Tri-State League. Lincoln 
joined from the Nebraska State League. Springfield of the Three-I League 
led Des Moines 3 games to 1 when the series was cancelled due to bad weather. 
St. Joseph moved to the Western Association. A new team in Amarillo, Texas 
formed and joined. Waco of the Texas League beat Tulsa 3 games to 2, with 
1 tie. Lincoln moved to the Nebraska State League. A new team in Pueblo, 
Colorado, formed and joined the League. Tulsa beat Oklahoma City 4 games 
to 1, with 1 tie, for the championship. Amarillo folded. The Topeka, Kansas 
team from the Western Association joined. The Tulsa team folded. A new 
team formed in St. Joseph, Missouri and joined the League. Des Moines beat 
Wichita 4 games to 2 for the championship. Topeka moved to the Western 
Association. The Tulsa team folded. Oklahoma City beat Tulsa 2 games to 
1 for the second half title. Tulsa beat Oklahoma City 4 games to none for 
the championship. Denver & Pueblo folded. Oklahoma City and Tulsa moved 
to the Texas League. The teams from Hutchinson, Kansas and Springfield, 
Missouri joined from the American Association. New teams in Joplin, Missouri, 
and Topeka, Kansas, formed and joined the League. Wichita, with a record 
of 6–13, moved to Muskogee on June 6, keeping the Oilers name, where they 
had a record of 20–82. Hutchinson, with a record of 25–32, moved on July 
7 to Bartlesville, where they had a record of 26–38. St. Joseph beat Topeka 
4 games to 1. St. Joseph lost to the Davenport team from the Mississippi 
Valley League 4 games to 2. Bartlesville, Joplin, Muskogee, and Springfield 
moved to the Western Association. The teams from Davenport, Iowa, and Rock 
Island, Illinois joined from the Mississippi Valley League. New teams in 
Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and Sioux City, Iowa formed and joined the League. 
St. Joseph beat Sioux City 3 games to 1 in the first round of playoffs. 
Davenport beat Des Moines by the same number. In the championship, St. 
Joseph beat Davnport 4 games to 3. Topeka folded. A new team in Keokuk, 
Iowa formed and joined the League. Omaha, with a record of 22–15, moved 
to Council Bluffs, Iowa on June 25, where they had a record of 33–31. Rock 
Island folded July 17. Council Bluffs folded August 27. Sioux City beat 
Davenport 3 games to none, and St. Joseph beat Des Moines 3 games to none, 
in the first round of the playoffs. St. Joseph beat Sioux City 4 games 
to 3 for the championship. Keokuk and St. Joseph folded. New teams formed 
in Omaha, Nebraska, and Waterloo, Iowa, and joined the League. Omaha moved 
to Rock Island on August 18. Rock Island folded July 7. Cedar Rapids and 
Waterloo moved to the Three-I League. Sioux City moved to the Nebraska 
State League. Davenport, Des Moines, and the League itself folded. The 
Western League was the topic of the book The Western League: A Baseball 
History, 1885 through 1999 (2002, McFarland Publishing) by W.C. Madden 
