Western Pennsylvania refers to the western third of the state of Pennsylvania 
in the United States. Pittsburgh is the region's principal city, with a 
metropolitan area population of about 2.4 million people, and serves as 
its economic and cultural center. Erie, Altoona, and Johnstown are its 
other metropolitan centers. As of the 2010 census, Western Pennsylvania's 
total population is nearly 4 million.[citation needed] Although the Commonwealth 
does not designate Western Pennsylvania as an official region, since colonial 
times it has retained a distinct identity not only because of its geographical 
distance from Philadelphia, the beginning of Pennsylvania settlement, but 
especially because of its topographical separation from the east by virtue 
of the Appalachian Mountains, which characterize much of the western region. 
In the 18th century, this separateness caused some to rally for the formation 
of a 14th state in this region named Westsylvania.[citation needed] The 
strong cultural identity of Western Pennsylvania is reinforced by the state 
supreme court holding sessions in Pittsburgh, in addition to Harrisburg 
and Philadelphia. Since at least the early 20th century, scholarly books 
such as Guidebook to Historic Western Pennsylvania, published by the University 
of Pittsburgh Press (1938), formally define the region as the 26 counties 
west of the Appalachian divide, a meridian from the north at McKean County 
down and along McKean's eastern border and ending in the south at Bedford 
County. In alphabetical order those counties are: Long recognized as a 
powerhouse of American industry, Western Pennsylvania is a large geophysical 
and socio-economic entity. It encompasses that portion of the state to 
the west of the Appalachian divide and included within the Mississippi 
drainage system of rivers. The largest rivers in this area are the Allegheny 
River, which flows southward from the New York border, and the Monongahela 
River, which flows northward from West Virginia. These two rivers meet 
in Downtown Pittsburgh and join to form the Ohio River, which from that 
point flows an additional 981 miles (1,579 km) southwest to the Mississippi 
River. The juncture of the Allegheny and Monongahela was historically regarded 
as strategic and the gateway to the interior of the continent from the 
east. At various times this juncture has been called the Forks of the Ohio, 
Fort Duquesne, Fort Pitt, the Golden Triangle, and today, at its apex, 
Point State Park. Incredibly, after several decades of border war and 150 
years of high-rent city-center urbanization, the original 1764 blockhouse 
from Fort Pitt still stands here and is one of the oldest buildings in 
the region. Other notable rivers are the Youghiogheny River, flowing north 
from West Virginia and western Maryland to join the Monongahela just upriver 
of Pittsburgh, and which was the early route of penetration into Western 
Pennsylvania, the Kiskiminetas River, French Creek, a major passageway 
between Lake Erie and the Allegheny River for the Indians and early French 
explorers and traders, and the small Oil Creek in Crawford and Venango 
counties, where slicks gave an indication of petroleum reserves and in 
whose watershed the first oil well in the United States was drilled. The 
highest point in Pennsylvania, Mount Davis, reaches 3,213 feet (979 m), 
and is located near the southern border of the state in Somerset County, 
approximately 100 miles (160 km) east of the southwestern corner, where 
the Appalachian Mountains enter Pennsylvania from the south.[1] To the 
west and north of this point lies the Allegheny Plateau, a dissected plateau 
so eroded that it appears to be an interminable series of high hills and 
steep valleys. The peaks in the area are among the lowest in the East Coast 
highlands, but what they lack in height they make up in wide extent of 
land covered, which forms a vast formidable barrier for mile upon mile 
to overland travel from the coast. Western Pennsylvania is home to more 
than two dozen institutions of higher learning, including those listed 
below. (Seminaries are not listed) Western Pennsylvania is distinctive 
from the rest of the state due to several important and complex factors: 
Pittsburgh boasts three major league sports teams: the Pittsburgh Steelers 
of the National Football League, the Pittsburgh Pirates of Major League 
Baseball, and the Pittsburgh Penguins of the National Hockey League. Meanwhile, 
the Pittsburgh Panthers is a NCAA Division I college team. Erie and Johnstown 
both have junior ice hockey teams as well. The Erie Otters play in the 
Ontario Hockey League and the Johnstown Tomahawks play in the North American 
