WFLD, virtual channel 32 (UHF digital channel 31), is a Fox owned-and-operated 
television station located in Chicago, Illinois, United States. The station 
is owned by the Fox Television Stations division of 21st Century Fox, and 
operates as part of a television duopoly with Gary, Indiana-licensed CW-affiliated/MyNetworkTV 
owned-and-operated station WPWR-TV (channel 50). The two stations share 
studio and office facilities located at Michigan Plaza on North Michigan 
Avenue in the Chicago Loop; WFLD's transmitter is based at the Willis Tower 
on South Wacker Drive in the Loop business district. The station can also 
be seen on Comcast cable channel 12 in most parts of the Chicago area. 
The station first signed on the air on January 4, 1966, as an independent 
station. WFLD was founded by a joint venture of the parties that each competed 
individually for the license and construction permit to operate on UHF 
channel 32. Field Enterprises – owned by heirs of the Marshall Field's 
department store chain, and publishers of the Chicago Sun-Times and the 
Chicago Daily News – was the station's majority partner (with a 50% interest) 
and was responsible for managing WFLD's day-to-day operations; they were 
led by veteran broadcasting executive Sterling C. (Red) Quinlan.[1][2] 
The station originally operated from studio facilities located within the 
Marina City complex on State Street.[3] Channel 32 was christened the "Station 
of Tomorrow" by an April 1966 Sun-Times article because of its innovative 
technical developments in broadcasting its signal. It also broadcast news 
programming from the Sun-Times/Daily News newsroom.[4] From the fall of 
1967 to summer of 1970, WFLD aired the final hour of CBS' Saturday daytime 
schedule from 12:00 to 1:00 p.m., in lieu of the network's owned-and-operated 
station WBBM-TV (channel 2).[citation needed] In March 1969, Field entered 
into an agreement to sell WFLD to New York City-based Metromedia for $10 
million.[5][6] At the time, the Field interests were concerned about running 
afoul of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)'s recent scrutiny 
of commonly owned multiple media outlets within the same market. The deal 
ultimately fell through nearly one year later in February 1970;[7] following 
the collapse of the Metromedia purchase attempt, Field instead purchased 
the 50% share of WFLD that was held by its minority partners.[citation 
needed] WFLD was noteworthy for being the longtime home of the local B-movie 
program Svengoolie. There were two versions of the showcase: the original 
incarnation of the series began on the station on September 18, 1970, under 
the title Screaming Yellow Theatre, with local disc jockey Jerry G. Bishop 
doing scary voices and later wearing a long blond wig while portraying 
the character. Bishop became such a hit with viewers that the show was 
popularly called "Svengoolie" after his character (although the title of 
the program did not change), and this version lasted until late in the 
summer of 1973. The second version premiered on June 16, 1979, with Rich 
Koz as "Son of Svengoolie", and ran on channel 32 until January 25, 1986. 
The show was revived on WCIU-TV (channel 26) when it became an English 
language independent station in December 1994, and has aired there locally 
ever since, and began to be broadcast nationally on MeTV in April 2011.[8][9][10][11] 
Field Enterprises sold controlling interest in WFLD to Kaiser Broadcasting 
in May 1972. When the deal was completed in July 1973, the two companies' 
new partnership resulted in WFLD joining Kaiser's stable of UHF independent 
stations in San Francisco, Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland and Detroit.[12][13][14] 
In June 1977, Kaiser ended the partnership when it sold its share of the 
stations back to Field Enterprises.[15][16] In addition to carrying the 
traditional fare of sitcoms, drama series, children's programs and first-run 
syndicated programs, the station also aired movies – initially European 
releases that were dubbed into English – and local public affairs programming 
during this period.[citation needed] To counterprogram against its more 
established VHF rivals, channel 32 offered older cartoons, older off-network 
sitcoms, documentaries, drama series, westerns and live sporting events; 
although, it easily trailed its biggest competitor, WGN-TV (channel 9, 
formerly a CW affiliate, now again as an independent station), in the ratings 
among Chicago's independent stations. The station broadcast daily from 
10:00 a.m. to about 1:00 a.m. during the 1970s, except from September to 
December, when the station signed on at 7:00 a.m. Beginning in 1978, WFLD 
signed on daily before 6:00 a.m. In 1975, WFLD acquired the local syndication 
rights to The Brady Bunch and The Partridge Family; two years later in 
1977, the station won the rights to a stronger slate of cartoons such as 
Woody Woodpecker and Tom and Jerry. Channel 32 strengthened its syndicated 
programming slate in 1979, when it acquired the local syndication rights 
to M*A*S*H, All in the Family, Happy Days and What's Happening!!. The station 
also acquired the rights to I Love Lucy that year, and later added Battlestar 
Galactica, Buck Rogers in the 25th Century, The Six Million Dollar Man, 
Wonder Woman and Star Trek in 1982. WFLD began to beat WGN-TV in ratings 
as a result of its stronger programming acquisitions,[citation needed] 
and the two stations continued to go head-to-head throughout the 1980s. 
WFLD scored no big ticket program acquisitions in 1980 or 1981; however, 
in 1982, the station won the local syndication rights to popular series 
such as Three's Company, Taxi and Mork and Mindy.[citation needed] In 1982, 
Field Enterprises began a gradual sale of its five television stations 
on an individual basis – a process which continued into the following year 
– due to disagreements between brothers Marshall Field V and Frederick 
"Ted" Field on how to operate the company, which strained their working 
relationship. Incidentally, the year prior in 1981, the Field brothers 
sought a prospective buyer for WFLD in the event that the company would 
be put up for sale. While WFLD was the leading independent station in Chicago 
at the time[citation needed], most of the companies that were interested 
in buying WFLD were only willing to pay about half the amount that Field 
wanted for the station (at least $100 million, compared to the approximately 
$50 million that the most expensive UHF stations went for). In addition, 
most of the prospective companies were concerned that Tribune Broadcasting-owned 
WGN-TV could eventually overtake WFLD again in the local ratings. By mere 
coincidence given Field's previous aborted attempt to sell channel 32 to 
that group, the one company that showed interested in WFLD was Metromedia, 
owners of WNEW-TV (now WNYW) in New York City, which led the independent 
stations in that market and beat Tribune-owned WPIX in the ratings there. 
Metromedia was ripe to compete against WGN, based on the group's success 
in competing against WPIX in the New York City market. In Chicago, Metromedia 
was given the right of first refusal to purchase WFLD. When Field began 
selling its stations, the company sold WFLD to Metromedia again – this 
time in a successfully completed deal for slightly over $100 million, a 
record price for a UHF station at the time. WFLD was the first of the stations 
that Field Communications sold when it began the liquidation process in 
September 1982 (with the final station to be sold – WKBD-TV in Detroit 
in January 1984) completing the deal for WFLD in March 1983.[17][18][19] 
As a condition, Metromedia was forced by the FCC to divest radio station 
WMET (95.5 FM, now WEBG), which it sold to Doubleday Broadcasting. WFLD's 
programming slate changed slightly, but the station's on-air graphics and 
branding were abruptly changed to reflect the new ownership, with the station 
adopting "Metromedia 32" as its on-air brand (using a similar branding 
scheme that was used at new sister station WNEW). Still, the old Field-era 
logos were used on-air by accident on some occasions through the summer 
of 1983. Metromedia added several first-run syndicated programs that were 
not previously carried in the Chicago market – as the market had only two 
commercial independent stations at the time as WSNS-TV (channel 44, now 
a Telemundo owned-and-operated station) became a full-time affiliate of 
the ONTV subscription service the previous year – onto the station's schedule, 
particularly in prime time, like The Merv Griffin Show (which WFLD previously 
carried a few years prior, but subsequently moved to WSNS where it ran 
until that station became a full-time ONTV outlet). WFLD remained the top-rated 
independent station in Chicago throughout Metromedia's ownership of the 
station.[citation needed] In May 1985, Metromedia reached an agreement 
to sell WFLD-TV and its five sister independent stations – WNEW-TV (now 
WNYW) in New York City, KTTV in Los Angeles, WTTG in Washington, D.C., 
KRLD-TV (now CW affiliate KDAF) in Dallas-Fort Worth and KRIV in Houston 
– to News Corporation, owned by Australian newspaper magnate Rupert Murdoch, 
for $2.55 billion (ABC affiliate WCVB-TV in Boston, the company's only 
network-affiliated station, was originally to be sold as well through the 
deal, but upon exercising a right of first refusal clause related to Metromedia's 
1982 purchase of that station, it was spun off to the Hearst Corporation's 
television and radio station subsidiary, Hearst Broadcasting, for $450 
million in a separate, concurrent deal).[20][21][22] That October, News 
Corporation – which had purchased a 50% interest in 20th Century Fox corporate 
parent TCF Holdings for $250 million in March 1985 – announced its intentions 
to create a fourth television network that would use the resources of 20th 
Century Fox Television to both produce and distribute programming, intending 
to compete with ABC, CBS and NBC. The company formally announced the launch 
of the new network, the Fox Broadcasting Company, on May 7, 1986, with 
the former Metromedia stations serving as its nuclei.[23] The purchase 
of the Metromedia stations was approved by the FCC and finalized on March 
6, 1986, with News Corporation creating a new broadcasting unit, the Fox 
Television Stations, to oversee the six television stations in April 1986.[24] 
Consequently, through the purchase, WFLD became one of the charter owned-and-operated 
stations of the Fox Broadcasting Company when the network launched seven 
months later on October 9. Following the sale to Fox, the station – which 
began branding on-air as "Fox 32" – continued to compete aggressively in 
the market, acquiring off-network syndicated programs such as Family Ties 
and The Cosby Show for its schedule.[25] The station also migrated its 
operations into its current facility at 205 North Michigan Avenue in 1986,[26] 
while also expanding its news presence with the launch of its news department 
in August 1987. The station's continued to carry its cartoon block on weekday 
afternoons, and top-rated off-network sitcoms in the evening hours; it 
also added more first-run talk and court shows. Although it was now part 
of a network, as was the case with other Fox stations during the network's 
early years, Channel 32, for all intents and purposes, continued to be 
programmed as a de facto independent station as Fox's initial programming 
consisted solely of a late-night talk show, The Late Show Starring Joan 
Rivers;[27] even when Fox launched its prime time lineup in April 1987, 
the network only aired programs during that daypart on Saturday and Sundays 
early on; Fox would gradually debut additional nights of programming over 
the next six years until it adopted a seven-night-a-week schedule in September 
1993. Until Fox began airing programming on a nightly basis, WFLD aired 
a movie at 7:00 p.m. (initially at 8:00 until 1988) on nights when network 
programs did not air. The afternoon and Saturday morning animation blocks 
were replaced by the network-supplied Fox Children's Network block (later 
known as Fox Kids) in September 1990. During the mid-1990s, WFLD continued 
to strengthen its programming schedule with acquisitions such as The Simpsons, 
Home Improvement (which later moved to rival station WGN-TV in September 
2001), and Seinfeld (which eventually moved to sister station WPWR, and 
later to WCIU-TV).[citation needed] In 1997, after several years of being 
known on the air as "Fox 32" (although it began to visually de-emphasize 
references to channel 32 on-air in 1993), the station changed its on-air 
branding to "Fox Chicago". This was due to the perceived embarrassment 
of being on a UHF analog channel in the third-largest market in the United 
States, especially considering that The WB was carried on VHF station WGN-TV. 
For much of this period, WFLD was the only Fox owned-and-operated station 
that did not use the conventional "Fox (channel number)" branding standardization, 
even though most Chicagoans still referred to WFLD as "Fox 32" or "channel 
32" (WFLD's Philadelphia sister station WTXF-TV utilized this same practice 
for nine years after Fox purchased that station from the Paramount Stations 
Group in 1994). In June 2002, Fox Television Stations purchased UPN affiliate 
WPWR-TV (now a CW affiliated/MyNetworkTV owned-and-operated station) from 
Newsweb Corporation for $450 million;[28][29] the deal created a duopoly 
with WFLD when it was finalized on August 21 of that year, with WPWR's 
operations subsequently being integrated into WFLD's facilities in downtown 
Chicago. When Fox ended the weekday editions of the Fox Kids block in January 
2002, WFLD added more first-run reality and talk shows to its lineup. In 
January 2003, WFLD dropped the Fox Saturday morning cartoon block, by then 
outsourced by Fox to producer 4Kids Entertainment and subsequently rebranded 
4Kids TV, which was moved to WPWR – where that station aired the Saturday 
block in the same timeslot until Fox discontinued 4Kids TV on December 
27, 2008. WFLD was the first of Fox's six original owned-and-operated stations 
(that were owned prior to its purchase of the New World Communications 
stations) to drop Fox's Saturday children's programming, and one of the 
few non-New World Fox O&Os (the other being sister station KMSP-TV in Minneapolis) 
that currently does not run the Weekend Marketplace infomercial block, 
which airs on WPWR instead.[citation needed] In September 2006, WFLD relaunched 
its website, migrating it to the "MyFox" platform that was also rolled 
out to the other Fox-owned stations. The MyFox sites would be refreshed 
in 2009 using a new platform developed by Fox and LIN Media (spun off as 
EndPlay, which Fox owned an equity interest in). In April 2012, WorldNow 
began to operate the websites for Fox's O&Os.[30] On November 12, 2012, 
the station dropped the "Fox Chicago" branding after 15 years, and began 
branding as "Fox 32" full-time for the first time since 1993. WFLD maintains 
a Mobile DTV feed (labelled "WFLD") over the mobile digital signal of sister 
station WPWR-TV, which carries the WFLD mobile simulcast in addition to 
that of its main channel on 50.1 (labelled "WPWR"). Broadcasting at 3.67 
Mbit/s, WPWR's mobile digital feed is the highest bitrate for such a signal 
operated by any Chicago television station.[32][33] As part of the analog 
television shutdown and digital conversion, WFLD shut down its analog signal, 
over UHF channel 32, at 11:59 p.m. on June 12, 2009, the official date 
in which full-power television stations in the United States were to cease 
operating analog signals and transition exclusively to digital broadcasts 
under federal mandate. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition 
UHF channel 31. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display 
the station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 32.[34] 
WFLD was the only television station in the Chicago market that participated 
in the "Analog Nightlight" program until its analog transmitter atop the 
John Hancock Center was shut down permanently on June 26, 2009.[35] The 
station's transmitter was upgraded to operate at a radiated power of 1 
megawatt – the maximum amount of power legally allowed for a broadcast 
television transmitter by the FCC – in early 2009. In addition to carrying 
the entire Fox network programming lineup, syndicated programs broadcast 
on WFLD (as of September 2016[update]) include TMZ on TV, The Wendy Williams 
Show, Harry, Dish Nation, and The Dr. Oz Show.[36] WFLD acquired the rights 
to broadcast Major League Baseball games from the Chicago White Sox in 
1968, assuming the contract from WGN-TV. Under the initial deal, WFLD carried 
White Sox games until 1972, when the team returned to WGN through a joint 
arrangement with WSNS-TV that lasted through the 1980 season and exclusively 
during the 1981 season; WFLD reassumed Sox game rights in 1982, carrying 
most of the team's non-cable games. In October 1988, the station filed 
a lawsuit against the White Sox club to terminate its television contract 
with the team, which was set to last through 1991, accusing team owners 
Jerry Reinsdorf and Eddie Einhorn of "gutting and stripmining the[...] 
team of salary investment, player quality and fan goodwill" which resulted 
in a decline in viewership for the games and profit losses for the station 
on the contract (WFLD's profits from the telecasts slid from $1.5 million 
profit in 1985 to a loss of $1.4 million in 1988, resulting in the rights 
fees costing four times more than the accrued revenue; ratings during that 
three-year period also dropped from a 5.1 share in 1985 to a 1.7 in August 
1988) as well as breached advertising agreements with the Chicagoland Dodge 
Dealers consortium.[37][38] Following an out-of-court settlement between 
WFLD station management and the Sox, on September 14, 1989, the White Sox 
announced that it would move its local television broadcasts back to WGN-TV 
beginning with the 1990 season.[39][40] Through Fox's coverage of Major 
League Baseball, WFLD has televised two of the three World Series with 
Chicago teams which have occurred in the television era; the White Sox's 
in 2005, and the Cubs in 2016, both ending in series victories for each 
team. From 1985 to 1989, WFLD also aired NBA games featuring the Chicago 
Bulls. Through the same agreement that resulted in that station obtaining 
the White Sox rights, WGN-TV acquired broadcast rights to the Bulls as 
Reinsdorf (a Chicago-area attorney and real estate investor) owns both 
franchises.[40] Since the network established its sports division in 1994, 
most sports events carried on channel 32 have been provided through Fox 
Sports. Through Fox's primary rights to the National Football Conference 
(NFC), the station airs select Chicago Bears telecasts, first becoming 
the unofficial "home" station of the team since the network acquired partial 
television rights to the National Football League (NFL) in 1994. On April 
22, 2008, the Bears announced a deal with WFLD to become its official broadcast 
partner. Consequently, in addition to already carrying most regular season 
and select preseason games through Fox, it began airing preseason games 
through the team's syndication service as well as other Bears-related programming 
during the NFL season including the pre-game and post-game shows Bears 
Gameday Live (on Sunday mornings) and Bears GameNight Live (which follows 
The Final Word on Sunday evenings). Other team-related programs were added 
through the deal including WFLD-produced secondary pre-game show Fox Kickoff 
Sunday (which debuted in 2010; not to be confused with Fox's Fox NFL Kickoff, 
which due to Bears Gameday Live, airs on WPWR instead) and the feature/interview 
program Inside the Bears (which debuted in 2013).[41][42][43] WFLD presently 
broadcasts 49.5 hours of locally produced newscasts each week (8½ hours 
on weekdays, and 3 hours on Saturdays and 3.5 hours on Sundays); in regards 
to the number of hours devoted to locally produced news programming, it 
is the second-highest news programming output of any station in the Chicago 
market, behind WGN-TV (which runs 61 hours of newscasts each week). During 
much of its history under the ownership of Field Enterprises, WFLD's news 
programming consisted solely of 90-second news updates, branded as Newscope 
(later renamed Newscene in 1979), that aired during the station's daytime 
and evening programming; a 10:00 p.m. edition of the program consisted 
of five- to ten-minute locally produced inserts that served as a lead-out 
of the station's weeknight prime time movie presentations. During the overnight 
hours, the station also provided the Keyfax Nite-Owl teletext service, 
which provided news, weather, sports and entertainment stories fed by computer 
systems at the Chicago Sun-Times offices with data sent over a telephone 
line from an editorial office in Elk Grove Village.[44] After Nite Owl 
was discontinued in 1982, WFLD began airing an hour-long simulcast of CNN 
Headline News during the overnight hours, as well as in the early afternoon 
on weekdays. Newscope was cancelled in 1982, shortly after Metromedia finalized 
its acquisition of the station. Following the announcement that it would 
move the station to a new studio facility on Michigan Avenue, Fox Television 
Stations created an in-house news department for WFLD. The station debuted 
its first long-form newscasts on August 3, 1987, with the premiere of half-hour 
newscasts at 7:00 p.m. (touted as "the news that doesn't get home before 
you do") and 11:00 p.m., which aired Monday through Friday evenings;[45][46] 
this was followed by the addition of half-hour 9:00 p.m. weekend editions 
on August 29.[47] Originally anchored by Kris Long and Robin Robinson Brantley 
(the latter of whom would remain the station's lead anchor until November 
2013[48]), the two programs aired separately for a year until both newscasts 
were consolidated into a single half-hour program to compete with the 9:00 p.m. 
newscast on then-independent station WGN-TV in November 1987,[49] at which 
time the weekend editions were also cancelled due to low ratings. The early 
newscast was moved back to 7:00 p.m. by the fall of 1988,[50] and returned 
to 9:00 p.m. by the fall of 1989,[51] in anticipation of Fox's expanding 
prime time schedule. In September 1990, WFLD announced plans to launch 
a 24-hour local cable news channel, to have been named "Chicago Cable News", 
in conjunction with former WLS-TV and WMAQ-TV weathercaster John Coleman 
(who was tapped to serve as the channel's general manager) and local cable 
provider Tele-Communications Inc. (which sold its Chicago area systems 
to Comcast in 1999), for a tentative launch in January 1991. Although Chicago 
Cable News would have shared some video footage with WFLD, the channel 
planned to employ anchors and reporters separate from those seen on channel 
32's newscasts.[52] For unknown reasons, this concept never launched; incidentally, 
WGN-TV eventually launched a similar cable channel, Chicagoland Television 
(CLTV), in January 1993. In 1991, the station retitled its newscasts from 
Fox 32 News to Fox News Chicago (though it was largely referenced verbally 
as simply Fox News in report introductions and end tags). WFLD scored a 
major coup in April 1993 when it persuaded longtime WBBM-TV anchor Walter 
Jacobson to take over as lead anchor of channel 32's 9:00 p.m. newscast; 
in addition, he also began providing taped commentaries and hosted a viewer 
mail segment for Good Day Chicago during its first years. Jacobson remained 
a main co-anchor of the 9:00 p.m. newscast until 2004, when he was replaced 
by Mark Suppelsa; Jacobson stayed at WFLD as host of Fox Chicago Sunday 
and a commentator for the evening newscast until his retirement in 2006 
(he would subsequently come out of retirement to return to WBBM, where 
he remained until 2012).[53][54][55] Largely due to Jacobson's influence, 
WFLD's newscasts have somewhat less of a tabloid feel than other Fox stations. 
However, they are much stylistically flashier than the Chicago market's 
other local television news programs.[citation needed] WFLD programmed 
news outside its established 9:00 slot for the first time on June 28, 1993, 
when it premiered a weekday morning newscast, Good Day Chicago. First anchored 
by Marianne Murciano, Darryl Dennard and David Rose, and formatted as a 
mix of news, commentary and lifestyle features, the show originally aired 
for three hours from 6:00 to 9:00 a.m., replacing a block of animated series 
that had previously aired that time period.[56] In July 1999, WFLD launched 
a half-hour midday newscast at noon, while expanding its morning newscast 
– by that time, titled Fox Thing in the Morning – to four hours (starting 
at 5:00 a.m.).[57] On April 9, 2007, WFLD premiered a half-hour 10:00 p.m. 
newscast called The TEN, anchored by David Novarro and former WLS-TV and 
WBBM-TV anchor/reporter Lauren Cohn. The program (according to Robert Feder's 
April 18, 2007 column in the Chicago Sun-Times) beat CBS-owned WBBM-TV's 
10:00 p.m. newscast on its second day on the air.[58] Despite its early 
success against WBBM-TV, The TEN was overall never much of a factor in 
the ratings; towards the end of its run, it fell to a distant fifth behind 
established late-news competitors WBBM, WLS-TV and WMAQ-TV, and Family 
Guy reruns on WGN-TV. As a result, WFLD cancelled the program, with its 
last broadcast airing on September 21, 2009.[59] On January 12, 2009, WFLD 
and NBC-owned WMAQ-TV entered into a Local News Service agreement to share 
a news helicopter and pool video footage between the two stations.[60] 
On May 10, 2009, WFLD became the last news-producing English-language station 
in the market to begin broadcasting its newscasts in high definition; however, 
remote field footage continues to be broadcast in 16:9 widescreen standard 
definition.[61] On July 5, 2016, WFLD launched its 5:00 p.m. newscast, 
becoming the fifteenth Fox-owned station and the fifth television station 
in Chicago to airing the 5:00 p.m. newscasts which completes against with 
half-hour early evening news on established competitors WBBM-TV, WMAQ-TV 
and WLS-TV and an hour-long early evening newscast on WGN-TV.[62] Historically, 
WFLD has been one of Fox's weakest owned-and-operated stations, particularly 
in regards to its newscasts. In recent Nielsen ratings sweeps periods, 
WFLD has been mired in last place among the late evening (9:00 or 10:00 p.m.) 
newscasts seen on the market's five English-language news-producing stations.[63][64][65] 
As such, Chicago is one of the few markets in the country where the Fox 
station actually trails that market's CW-affiliated station (WGN-TV) in 
the local viewership ratings, from sign-on to sign-off.[citation needed] 
This is primarily due to WGN-TV's strong news department, local sports 
programming and higher-rated syndicated programming, even though WFLD has 
a much stronger network lead-in.[66] In the February 2011 sweeps period, 
WFLD's 9:00 p.m. newscast slid to a 2.3 rating share, down more than a 
full point from a 3.4 during the February 2010 sweeps period. This is despite 
the pairing of co-anchor team Bob Sirott and Robin Robinson, suggesting 
that the pairing of the anchors has not been able to improve ratings.[67] 
By February 2015, the 9:00 p.m. newscast — by then, anchored by Dawn Hasbrouck 
and Jeff Herndon — had dropped to a 0.9 share (a decline from a 1.3 in 
May 2014), behind the 1.6 share accrued by WGN-TV's 9:00 p.m. newscast.[68] 
