WGN-TV, virtual channel 9 (UHF digital channel 19), is an independent television 
station located in Chicago, Illinois, United States. It is the flagship 
television property of the Tribune Broadcasting subsidiary of Tribune Media, 
which also owns radio station WGN (720 AM) and local cable news channel 
Chicagoland Television (CLTV). WGN-TV maintains studio facilities and offices 
located on West Bradley Place in Chicago's North Center neighborhood (as 
such, it is the only major commercial television station in Chicago which 
maintains studio facilities located outside of the downtown business district), 
and its transmitter is located atop the Willis Tower on South Wacker Drive 
in the Chicago Loop. WGN-TV is also a pioneering superstation, and formerly 
programmed an alternate feed for cable and satellite subscribers throughout 
the United States and select areas of Canada. The former "superstation" 
feed, WGN America, was converted by Tribune into a conventional basic cable 
network in December 2014 through the channel's removal of all WGN-TV-produced 
news, sports and event programs and its concurrent addition to cable providers 
within the Chicago market (including Comcast Xfinity, AT&T U-verse, WOW! 
and RCN) – in addition to its existing local carriage on the DirecTV and 
Dish Network satellite services.[1][2][3][4] However, WGN-TV regained national 
availability as the Chicago area feed was included as part of the initial 
offerings of Channel Master's LinearTV service, which launched in the spring 
of 2015.[5] WGN's longtime slogan, "Chicago's Very Own" (which has been 
used by the station since it was introduced in 1983), was the basis for 
a popular image campaign of the 1980s and 1990s, as performed by Chicago 
native Lou Rawls. WGN Television began test broadcasts in February 1948 
and began regular programming on April 5 with a two-hour special, WGN-TV 
Salute to Chicago, at 7:45 p.m. that evening. It was founded by the Chicago 
Tribune – whose slogan "World's Greatest Newspaper" was the basis for the 
call letters used by the television station and its radio sister. WGN-TV 
originally held dual primary affiliations with CBS and the DuMont Television 
Network, sharing both networks with WBKB (channel 4). For its first 13 
years on the air, WGN-TV had operated from the Tribune Tower at 435 North 
Michigan Avenue in downtown Chicago. Channel 9 lost its CBS affiliation 
as a sidebar to the February 1953 merger of ABC and United Paramount Theatres; 
at the time, CBS had purchased the VHF channel 4 license in Chicago (now 
WBBM-TV, which later moved to channel 2, forcing Phonevision off the air) 
from United Paramount Theatres – which absorbed WBKB's founding owners, 
Balaban and Katz in 1949, after a U.S. Supreme Court order forced Paramount 
Pictures to divest its chain of movie theaters – for $6.75 million, as 
the newly merged entity could not keep both WBKB and ABC owned-and-operated 
station WENR-TV (channel 7, now WLS-TV) due to Federal Communications Commission 
(FCC) regulations then enforced that forbade common ownership of two television 
stations that were licensed to the same market. Following a two-month cancellation 
clause, all of the CBS programs that WGN-TV had been airing were moved 
to the rechristened WBBM-TV, leaving channel 9 exclusively with DuMont. 
WGN-TV soon became one of DuMont's strongest affiliates, as well as a major 
production center for that network. Several DuMont programs were produced 
from the station's facilities, including The Al Morgan Show, Chicago Symphony, 
Chicagoland Mystery Players, Music From Chicago, The Music Show, They Stand 
Accused, This is Music, Windy City Jamboree and Down You Go. WGN-TV had 
also telecast performances of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, beginning 
in 1953, when Fritz Reiner was the orchestra's music director. The station 
lost the DuMont affiliation when the network ceased operations on August 
6, 1956; at that point, WGN-TV became an independent station. Channel 9 
then spent much of the next two decades as the top-rated independent in 
Chicago, offering a variety of general entertainment programs including 
movies, sports, off-network reruns and children's programs. For much of 
its existence, WGN-TV produced a large number of its own programs at its 
studios. A historic moment in Chicago television occurred when Sheldon 
Cooper launched The All-Time Hits, a musical variety show that ran for 
13 weeks and featured The Buckinghams; the program was broadcast in color. 
During the late 1950s, the station was briefly affiliated with the NTA 
Film Network.[6] In 1957, WGN-TV became one of the first television stations 
in the Chicago market to broadcast live programming in color. Notable WGN-TV 
productions during the 1960s through the 1980s included several incarnations 
of the immensely popular Bozo's Circus, Ray Rayner and His Friends, Garfield 
Goose and Friends (which was hosted by Frazier Thomas, who also hosted 
a popular family movie showcase on the station titled Family Classics), 
The Mulqueens,[7] and the popular children's educational series The Space 
Explorers. WGN-TV served as the Chicago affiliate of the United Network 
for its one month of existence in 1967, airing The Las Vegas Show. From 
1974 to 1982, Phil Donahue's syndicated daytime talk show Donahue originated 
from the WGN-TV studios. In 1975, the agriculture program U.S. Farm Report 
debuted in national syndication, also originating from WGN-TV's studios. 
In 1961, the WGN stations moved to studio facilities on West Bradley Place 
in the North Center neighborhood, a move undertaken for civil defense concerns 
in order to provide the station a safe location to broadcast in case of 
a hostile attack targeting downtown Chicago.[8] WGN radio eventually moved 
back to North Michigan Avenue in the Pioneer Court extension in 1986,[9] 
then back into Tribune Tower in October 2012;[10] the television station, 
however, remains at the Bradley Place facility to this day. In 1968, the 
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) barred companies from owning newspapers 
and broadcast outlets in the same market; the FCC granted the Tribune Company 
permission to grandfather its combination of the Chicago Tribune, WGN-TV 
and WGN radio through a cross-ownership waiver. In 2014, Tribune entered 
into a local marketing agreement with Venture Technologies Group, owners 
of WKQX-LP, a low-power analog television station on VHF channel 6 which 
uses a quirk in the FM bandplan to broadcast an audio format on the radio 
over 87.7 FM; this became a sports talk station that operated as a sister 
station to WGN radio. The station, which changed its calls to WGWG-LP, 
was not covered under the FCC restrictions (this issue became moot with 
the Tribune's separation from the Tribune Company); Tribune's LMA with 
WGWG-LP (now WRME-LP) ended on February 23, 2015, when it was transferred 
to Weigel Broadcasting and converted into an oldies/beautiful music format 
as a radio extension of the company's MeTV brand. WGN-TV began to be distributed 
across the United States through cable television in October 1978, after 
Tulsa, Oklahoma-based United Video Satellite Group uplinked the station's 
signal via satellite.[11] This signal was picked up by many fledgling cable 
television providers, as well as directly to satellite dish owners, turning 
WGN-TV into one of the first superstations, alongside New York City's WOR-TV 
(now WWOR-TV) and Atlanta's WTBS (now WPCH-TV). As WGN-TV gained national 
exposure, the station became vulnerable in the Chicago area and underestimated 
the ability of UHF competitor WFLD (channel 32, now a Fox owned-and-operated 
station) to acquire top-rated syndicated programs (such as M*A*S*H, Happy 
Days and All in the Family). As a result, WFLD edged ahead of WGN-TV in 
the ratings by the end of 1979. WGN-TV continued with its programming format, 
competing with WFLD and another UHF independent station, WSNS-TV (channel 
44, now a Telemundo owned-and-operated station). WSNS would leave the competition 
when it affiliated with the subscription television service ONTV during 
the nighttime hours in 1980, becoming a full-time affiliation in 1982. 
On November 10, 1984, WGN-TV became an affiliate of the MGM/UA Premiere 
Network, a film-based ad hoc television network, with the showing of Clash 
of the Titans.[12] On May 19, 1988, the FCC passed the Syndication Exclusivity 
Rights rule (or "SyndEx"), requiring cable providers to black out syndicated 
programs shown on any out-of-market stations, if a television station obtains 
the exclusive local rights to air a particular program.[13][14][15] When 
the law went into effect on January 1, 1990, WGN-TV launched a separate 
national feed supplied with alternate programming that no stations claimed 
exclusive rights to in any market (along with sporting events, newscasts 
and several shows airing on WGN-TV that were also not subject to exclusivity 
claims). In September 1994, the station moved The Bozo Show from its longtime 
weekday morning slot to Sunday mornings, where it remained and was eventually 
reformatted to fit the FCC's educational programming guidelines until the 
program was controversially discontinued by station management in 2001.[16] 
On November 2, 1993, the Warner Bros. Television division of Time Warner 
and the Tribune Company announced the formation of The WB; through its 
part-ownership of the network, Tribune signed deals to affiliate the majority 
of the company's independent stations with the network.[17][18] Even though 
its parent company would be a partner in The WB, WGN-TV had initially planned 
to remain an independent station due to concerns by station management 
with balancing a network affiliation and fulfilling the station's sports 
broadcast commitments.[19][20] However, despite that reason, the station 
competed with WPWR-TV (channel 50) to become the Chicago charter affiliate 
of the United Paramount Network (UPN), another planned network founded 
by Chris-Craft/United Television in partnership with Paramount Television; 
UPN opted to sign an affiliation agreement with WPWR on November 10, 1993.[21] 
WGN-TV then reversed course on its earlier decision to turn down the WB 
affiliation, and signed an affiliation agreement with that network one 
month later on December 3, 1993; prior to the signing of the agreement, 
the network had planned to affiliate with competing independent WGBO-TV 
(channel 66), which instead joined Univision two weeks prior to The WB's 
launch on December 30, 1994.[22][23] As part of the agreement, WGN would 
carry The WB's prime time schedule (and upon its September 1995 debut, 
Kids' WB children's programming) on its national superstation feed, with 
the purpose of making the network available to areas of the United States 
where The WB did not have an affiliate early on.[24] WGN-TV became a charter 
affiliate of The WB when it launched on January 11, 1995. Channel 9 only 
aired the network's prime time programming until 2004; the Kids' WB weekday 
and Saturday blocks aired locally on former Univision affiliate WCIU-TV 
(channel 26), which had converted into an English-language independent 
station on the same date that WGBO became a Univision owned-and-operated 
station, through a separate deal reached on February 19, 1995.[25][26] 
As was the case with other WB-affiliated stations during the network's 
early years, WGN-TV initially continued to essentially be programmed as 
a de facto independent station. WGN's programming upon becoming a WB affiliate 
remained unchanged, as the network had only broadcast prime time shows 
on Wednesday nights at its launch and would not carry six nights a week 
of programming until September 1999 (running Sunday through Fridays). Feature 
films filled the time period leading into the station's late-evening newscast 
on nights when network programs did not air, eventually being relegated 
to Saturdays by 1999. The WB expanded its over-the-air affiliate coverage 
over time, and launched a cable-only affiliate group for areas where it 
could not align with an over-the-air station; this made using the superstation 
feed as a default affiliate no longer necessary as a result, leading to 
the network's October 1999 request that WGN stop carrying The WB's programming 
outside of the Chicago market.[27][28] In 2000, WGN-TV constructed a new 
newsroom on the eastern portion of its studio facility, increasing the 
building's space to 29,000 square feet (the original newsroom was converted 
into the station's weather center).[8] In 2004, WGN-TV began broadcasting 
Chicago Cubs, White Sox and Bulls home games in high definition. On January 
24, 2006, Time Warner's Warner Bros. unit and CBS Corporation announced 
that the two companies would shut down The WB and UPN. In their place, 
the companies would combine the respective programming of the two networks 
to create a new "fifth" network called The CW.[29][30] On that same date, 
The CW signed WGN-TV as the network's Chicago affiliate as part of a ten-year 
agreement that saw Tribune Broadcasting sign 16 of its 18 other WB-affiliated 
stations at the time to serve as the network's charter stations.[30] WGN 
switched to The CW when it launched on September 18, 2006 (WGN America 
never carried The CW's programming during its final years as WGN-TV's superstation 
feed, as the network has sufficient broadcast coverage through over-the-air 
stations, digital multicast channels and cable-only affiliates negating 
the need for WGN America to provide The CW with additional nationwide coverage). 
On April 2, 2007, Chicago investor Sam Zell announced plans to purchase 
the Tribune Company, with intentions to take the publicly traded firm private;[31] 
the deal was completed on December 20, 2007. Prior to the close of the 
sale, WGN-TV was one of two commercial television stations in Chicago (not 
counting network-owned stations) to have never been involved in an ownership 
transaction (WCIU is the other, having been owned by Weigel Broadcasting 
since its sign-on in February 1964). Tribune subsequently filed for Chapter 
11 bankruptcy protection in 2008, due to debt accrued from Zell's leveraged 
buyout and costs from the privatization of the company; Tribune emerged 
from bankruptcy in December 2012 under the control of its senior debt holders 
Oaktree Capital Management, Angelo, Gordon & Co. and JPMorgan Chase.[32][33] 
On October 13, 2008, WGN-TV began a partnership with WGN radio to provide 
weather forecasts for the station;[34] it replaced The Weather Channel 
as a content partner, as the cable network ended its ten-year forecast 
partnership with WGN radio on that date. On February 4, 2009, Tribune Broadcasting 
announced it would merge CLTV's operations with channel 9's news department[35][36] 
(in addition to sharing resources with WGN-TV, CLTV also shares newsgathering 
resources with the Chicago Tribune). In 2009, WGN-TV began streaming its 
weekday midday and 5:00 p.m. newscasts live on its website. On February 
22, 2010, WGN-TV became the first television station in the Chicago market 
to allow iPhone users to watch live streams of its newscasts; the 6:00 
to 9:00 a.m. block of the WGN Morning News, the midday and 5:00 p.m. newscasts 
were initially available for streaming to iPhone users; at present, all 
newscasts are streamed through the station's website and on Apple devices, 
though sports segments are blacked out (presented only with the audio feed) 
due to rights restrictions with the major sports leagues.[37] On July 10, 
2013, Tribune announced plans to spin off its publishing division into 
a separate company. Once the split was finalized on August 4, 2014, ending 
the station's co-ownership with the Tribune after 66 years, WGN-TV and 
WGN radio remained with the renamed Tribune Media Company (which retains 
all non-publishing assets, including the broadcasting, digital media and 
Media Services units), while its newspapers (including the Chicago Tribune) 
became part of the similarly named Tribune Publishing Company.[38][39] 
Additionally in December 2013, the station gained new sister stations in 
nearby markets as part of Tribune's purchase of the Local TV station group[40] 
– ABC affiliate WQAD-TV in the Quad Cities and Fox affiliate WITI in Milwaukee 
– both of which had already shared news stories from their markets with 
WGN-TV as part of an existing content and broadcast management agreement 
between Local TV and Tribune. As a CW affiliate, WGN-TV had been one of 
the network's higher-rated affiliates in terms of viewership, often drawing 
more viewers than Fox-owned WFLD, even in prime time despite the latter's 
Fox programming. As was the case during its final two years as a WB affiliate, 
WGN-TV aired the entire CW network schedule, including the network's children's 
program blocks (Kids' WB, The CW4Kids/Toonzai, Vortexx and One Magnificent 
Morning); however, from September 2013 until it disaffiliated from the 
network, it had aired The Bill Cunningham Show – which aired as part of 
The CW Daytime – one hour earlier (at 2:00 p.m.) than the network's other 
Central Time Zone affiliates, aligning with its airtime in the Eastern 
Time Zone. On May 23, 2016, Tribune Broadcasting and The CW reached a five-year 
affiliation agreement that renewed the network's affiliations with twelve 
of Tribune's CW-affiliated stations through the 2020-21 television season; 
the deal came after a year-long disagreement between The CW's managing 
partner CBS Corporation and Tribune concerning financial terms, specifically 
the amount of reverse compensation that The CW had sought from the group's 
CW affiliates.[41][42][43][44] While negotiating the terms of its agreement 
with CBS Corporation, Tribune Broadcasting decided not to renew The CW's 
affiliation with WGN-TV after the network's initial ten-year agreement 
with Tribune expires on August 31, 2016. With this, Tribune announced that 
Channel 9 would become an independent station on September 1, filling time 
slots previously occupied by CW network shows with additional syndicated 
programs and expanded weekend morning newscasts, as well as most notably, 
an increased number of prime time game telecasts involving the Chicago 
Cubs, White Sox, Bulls and Blackhawks during the calendar year. The CW 
affiliation would then move to MyNetworkTV owned-and-operated station WPWR-TV 
(which would mark the second time that Fox Television Stations had owned 
a CW-affiliated station, as it operated Charlotte sister station WJZY as 
a CW affiliate for approximately 3½ months after the closure of its purchase 
of that station in April 2013).[45][46] The impetus of the move – which 
marked the first time in 21 years that WGN-TV would not be affiliated with 
a major broadcast network – was to alleviate scheduling issues with the 
station's sports programming because of contractual stipulations set by 
The CW (and by The WB beforehand) that limit the number of daytime and 
prime time programming preemptions that it could make on an annual basis 
(outside of those necessitated by coverage of breaking news), which resulted 
in WGN-TV having to maintain time-buy agreements with other local stations 
– WCIU-TV from 1999 until 2015, and then WPWR-TV afterward – to defer some 
game telecasts that it was assigned to produce and broadcast. During its 
tenures with The WB and The CW, WGN had to tape delay network programs 
that were deferred due to sports events scheduled during designated programming 
hours for broadcast later in the week (usually on Saturday and/or Sunday 
evenings, as The CW does not air any prime time programming on weekends; 
the station did not air certain deferred CW programs on Sunday nights until 
the network turned over the five-hour prime time slot to its affiliates 
in September 2009).[46][47][48] On July 12, 2016, Tribune Broadcasting 
appointed Paul Rennie as President and General Manager of WGN-TV.[49] The 
final CW program to air on WGN-TV was Whose Line Is It Anyway? at 8:30 
p.m. Central Time on August 31, 2016, leading into the station's prime 
time newscast. All CW network programs moved to WPWR the following day 
on September 1, beginning with that day's airing of The Bill Cunningham 
Show, with that station's existing MyNetworkTV programming being shifted 
to air after The CW's prime time schedule on Monday through Friday nights. 
As such, WPWR displaced WLVI in Boston (which Tribune Broadcasting owned 
from 1994 until it sold the station to Sunbeam Television in 2006) as the 
largest CW station that is not owned by either Tribune or CBS Corporation 
(the latter's television station subsidiary, CBS Television Stations, owns 
WBBM-TV (channel 2), which is the largest CBS owned-and-operated station 
that is not operated as part of a duopoly). The station's digital signal 
is multiplexed: The station's 9.2 digital subchannel originally carried 
The Tube Music Network from 2006 until it shut down in October 2007, when 
the subchannel switched to a simulcast of WGN-TV's main channel. In June 
2008, the subchannel became an affiliate of LATV.[53] The LATV affiliation 
moved to a subchannel of low-power station WOCK-CD (channel 13) in July 
2010. The subchannel became a charter affiliate of Tribune-owned Antenna 
TV on January 1, 2011. On May 13, 2013, Tribune Broadcasting announced 
that it would replace Weigel Broadcasting (which like Tribune, is headquartered 
in Chicago and decided to leave the joint venture with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer 
to concentrate on the similarly formatted movie channel Movies! and its 
existing classic television network MeTV) as a partner in This TV on November 
1 of that year. As a result, the network's Chicago affiliation moved to 
WGN-TV on that date on a new 9.3 digital subchannel.[52][54][55][56] WGN-TV 
shut down its analog signal, over VHF channel 9, on June 12, 2009, the 
official date in which full-power television stations in the United States 
transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The 
station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 19.[57][58] 
Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's 
virtual channel as its former VHF analog channel 9. Though not a participant 
in the SAFER Act, WWME-CA (channel 23) simulcast WGN-TV's 9:00 p.m. newscasts 
(except in the event of sports delays) and WMAQ-TV (channel 5)'s morning 
and early evening newscasts until July 12 to provide an analog "lifeline" 
for viewers that were unprepared for or who had reception issues following 
the digital transition.[59][60][61] In Chicago's far northern suburbs and 
rural areas to the north and west, the signal of WMTV in Madison, Wisconsin 
(which also transmits on digital channel 19) interferes with reception 
of WGN-TV, particularly in Kane, Lake, Boone and McHenry counties. WGN-TV 
also interferes with the signal of Grand Rapids sister station WXMI, requiring 
the latter outlet to maintain a digital translator station on channel 17 
from Muskegon to address this interference. WOTV in Battle Creek, Michigan 
transmits next to WXMI on channel 20, resulting in additional multi-channel 
interference.[62] Due to its news-intensive schedule, WGN, despite returning 
to its status as a independent after ending 21 years of network affiliation, 
airs only four hours of syndicated programs within its weekday daytime 
schedule. Syndicated programs on WGN-TV (as of September 2016[update]) 
include Maury, Crime Watch Daily, Celebrity Name Game, Elementary, Last 
Man Standing, and Friends.[63] Prior to the effective separation of the 
two services in December 2014, WGN-TV and its superstation feed-turned-basic 
cable channel WGN America had vastly different program offerings due to 
syndication exclusivity rules; although the local and national feeds initially 
shared a significant amount of common programming after the SyndEx law 
was implemented, WGN-TV and WGN America's schedules became increasingly 
disparate during the 1990s and 2000s. By 2013, the only WGN-TV programs 
that Tribune held full-signal national broadcast rights to air on WGN America 
included local newscasts and sports programming, select news specials and 
special events (such as the McDonald's Thanksgiving Parade and the Mummer's 
Parade); public affairs programs People to People and Adelante, Chicago; 
a limited inventory of off-network syndicated reruns; religious programs 
Singsation!, Discover the Truth and Tomorrow's World; and select feature 
films (which aired in different timeslots from those on WGN-TV/Chicago). 
Likewise, WGN-TV did not carry WGN America's original drama series Salem 
or Manhattan outside of promotional preview promos (as a result and prior 
to the channel being added by Chicago-area cable systems, WGN America's 
original programming was only viewable in the Chicago market by subscribers 
of DirecTV and Dish Network, though WGN America has also made arrangements 
to stream both series through Hulu).[64] WGN-TV presently broadcasts 61½ 
hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with 11½ hours on weekdays 
and 4 hours each on Saturdays and Sundays);[65] in regards to the number 
of hours devoted to locally produced news programming, it is the highest 
newscast output of any television station in Chicago and the state of Illinois. 
In addition, the station produces Instant Replay, a 20-minute sports highlight 
program that airs on Sunday evenings during the final 20 minutes of the 
9:00 p.m. newscast and is hosted by longtime sports director Dan Roan. 
Since July 8, 2010, CLTV airs live half-hour editions of WGN-TV's 9:00 
p.m. newscast on certain nights in which WGN-TV is scheduled to telecast 
a sports event being held on the West Coast at 9:00 p.m. (an additional 
half-hour live newscast then airs following the game on WGN-TV).[66] WGN-TV's 
news department is notable for the longevity of its on-air news staff, 
with many of its news anchors having worked for channel 9 for at least 
ten years.[citation needed] WGN-TV is also the largest television station 
by market size that is a broadcast partner in the WeatherBug real-time 
automated weather observation network.[67] News has played an important 
role on WGN-TV since the station's beginnings, due in part to its ties 
to the Chicago Tribune. From the station's sign-on, WGN produced a nightly 
late evening newscast as well as Nightbeat, a 15-minute overnight newscast 
(by the time the program was canceled in 1983, Nightbeat usually served 
as the lead-out of the station's late evening movie presentations). In 
1965, WGN-TV introduced the first news anchor team, Gary Park and Jim Ruddle. 
On March 10, 1980, WGN-TV debuted the first hour-long primetime newscast 
in the Midwest, when it moved its half-hour 10:00 p.m. newscast (then titled 
John Drury and Newsnine) to 9:00 p.m. and expanded it to one hour, relaunching 
it as The Nine O'Clock News. The second half-hour of the program was dropped 
on June 9, 1980, with the newscast being accompanied at 9:30 p.m. by the 
nationally syndicated Independent Network News, which was produced by sister 
station WPIX in New York City; INN was paired with the local prime time 
newscast until the national program's cancellation in June 1990. Since 
the reformatting as a prime time newscast, WGN-TV has been the ratings 
leader in the 9:00 p.m. timeslot, with or without news competition in the 
arena. In the spring of 1988, however, The Nine O'Clock News gained competition 
when Fox owned-and-operated station WFLD – which launched its news department 
in August 1987 with the premiere of half-hour 7:00 and 11:00 p.m. newscasts 
– consolidated those programs into a single broadcast that went up against 
WGN's established newscast at 9:00 p.m.[68] Although WFLD aggressively 
marketed its fledgling newscast towards younger audiences and as having 
a fresher style compared to WGN's more traditional news format, viewers 
remained loyal to channel 9, which has remained #1 in the ratings at 9:00 
ever since. For this reason, WFLD moved back its prime time newscast to 
an earlier timeslot in September 1988, leaving WGN as the only 9:00 newscast 
in the Chicago market; the two stations would become competitors again 
in September 1989, when WFLD reverted to placing its newscast up against 
WGN's in the 9:00 slot, in anticipation of the planned expansion of Fox's 
prime time schedule. In 1984, WGN debuted an hour-long midday newscast 
at noon each Monday through Friday, originally under the title Newscope. 
The midday newscast would eventually expand to 90 minutes (starting at 
11:30 a.m.) on September 15, 2008,[69] and then to two hours (at 11:00 
a.m.) on October 5, 2009.[70] The station made its first foray into weekend 
morning news with the debut of hour-long 8:00 a.m. newscasts on Saturdays 
and Sundays in 1992 (an unusual situation considering that the weekday 
morning newscast would not debut for another two years); the Sunday edition 
was cancelled in September 1994 – concurrent with the move of The Bozo 
Show to Sunday mornings due to the launch of the WGN Morning News in the 
program's weekday morning timeslot; the Saturday edition eventually followed 
suit in 1998. Weekend morning newscasts returned on October 2, 2010, with 
the debut of hour-long editions at 6:00 a.m. on Saturdays and Sundays.[71] 
The station dropped its weekday morning children's programs on September 
6, 1994, replacing them with the then one hour-long WGN Morning News; that 
newscast gradually expanded over time: first to two hours in January 1996, 
then to three hours from 6:00 to 9:00 a.m. eight months later, with half-hour 
expansions in January 2001 (to 5:30 a.m.), January 2004 (to 5:00 a.m.), 
August 16, 2010 (to 4:30 a.m.),[72] and July 11, 2011 (to 4:00 a.m.),[73] 
with an hour-long expansion (to 10:00 a.m.) on September 3, 2013.[74][75] 
In July 1996, WGN-TV began using a Eurocopter AS350 B2 helicopter for newsgathering, 
"Skycam 9," which is used for certain breaking news events and traffic 
reporting.[76] On November 1, 2007, WGN debuted a new custom news music 
package Chicago's Very Own by 615 Music (which shares its name with a John 
Hegner-composed news theme that the station used from 1993 to 1997). On 
July 19, 2008, WGN-TV became the third television station in the Chicago 
market to begin broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition (as 
of July 2010, WGN-TV is the first station in the market to broadcast all 
locally originated portions of its newscasts, including live field reports, 
in HD; this is in contrast to the other major English-language news stations 
in Chicago, which all broadcast in-studio segments in HD and some or all 
of their live field footage in 16:9 widescreen standard definition). WGN 
first launched an early-evening newscast on September 15, 2008, when it 
premiered the WGN Evening News, a half-hour program at 5:30 p.m. Monday 
through Fridays.[69] The early-evening newscast expanded to one hour (starting 
at 5:00 p.m.) on October 5, 2009,[77] and then to Saturday and Sunday evenings 
on July 12, 2014;[65][78] the weekday editions of the newscast were later 
expanded to include a second hour (starting at 4:00 p.m.) two months later 
on September 8, 2014.[79] On October 5, 2015, the station restored a 10:00 
p.m. newscast – which only airs Monday through Fridays – to its schedule 
after 35 years.[80][81] From 1978 until the channel's conversion into a 
conventional cable network in 2014, WGN America carried select local news 
and public affairs programs from WGN-TV. As WGN-TV's superstation feed, 
it originally simulcast the first incarnation of the 10:00 p.m. newscast, 
and then the current prime time newscast when it launched in March 1980, 
as well as Nightbeat and the previous incarnation of the station's weekend 
morning newscasts it produced during the 1990s. From 1990 until the program 
was dropped from the channel on January 30, 2014, WGN-TV's nightly 9:00 
p.m. newscast was occasionally preempted outside of Chicago if rights issues 
prevented a sports telecast that was scheduled to start at or run past 
9:00 p.m. Central Time from being cleared for broadcast on WGN America.[82] 
The midday newscast was also occasionally preempted – albeit, far less 
often – due to Cubs or White Sox games starting on WGN-TV/WGN America at 
12:00 p.m. local time. Syndication exclusivity rules on paid segments featured 
within the newscast (as WGN-TV's sales department negotiates appearances 
and terms, which would result in the charging of a higher rate if the segments 
aired nationally) reportedly resulted in the initial removal of the WGN 
Morning News from WGN America in September 1996 (the only known incidence 
in which SyndEx rules resulted in a news program's preemption on cable 
providers outside of its primary broadcast area); simulcasts of the WGN 
Morning News returned to the national channel on February 3, 2014, when 
WGN America began airing the 4:00 a.m. hour. For unknown reasons, the superstation 
feed never cleared the 11:00 a.m. hour of the midday newscast, the early-evening 
and weekend morning newscasts that were added by WGN-TV between 2008 and 
the start of WGN America's conversion into a conventional cable channel. 
From 2008 to 2014, WGN-TV's news anchors referenced the WGN America telecast 
at the start of the news simulcasts on weekdays (except in instances when 
a newscast was preempted by the superstation feed). All news simulcasts 
were dropped from WGN America on December 13, 2014, although some cable 
providers carrying the channel on their limited basic programming tiers 
continued to simulcast the first two hours of the weekday morning newscast 
in the interim until carriage agreements were amended to allow the national 
WGN to move to their expanded basic tiers. WGN America carried WGN-TV's 
coverage of the Chicago Cubs' victory parade for winning the 2016 World 
Series on November 4, 2016 in full, though the same coverage was also simulcast 
by MLB Network. The station's 9:00 p.m. newscast usually receives significantly 
higher viewership than WFLD's competing newscast in that slot, despite 
the latter's Fox programming lead-in, and generally has a larger audience 
than the 10:00 p.m. newscast on CBS-owned WBBM-TV. The WGN Morning News 
also draws in a sizeable number of viewers in the Chicago market, often 
coming in first place overall, over WFLD's morning news program Good Day 
Chicago.[citation needed] In the May 2015 local Nielsen ratings, WGN's 
newscasts placed third overall among Chicago's television stations. The 
9:00 p.m. newscast dominated over that of its sole prime time news competitor 
WFLD with a 4.3 rating (up 5% from the May 2014 sweeps period) and placed 
first in the timeslot across all key demographics (including adults, men 
and women ages 25–54, and adults 18-49), in addition to beating WBBM-TV's 
10:00 p.m. newscast for third place among the Chicago market's late-evening 
newscasts. The morning newscast tied (with WLS-TV) in all demographics 
at 5:00 and 6:00 a.m., second in total viewers at 7:00 a.m. and first among 
major age demos for the final four hours of the broadcast; while the midday 
newscast beat the WLS-TV talk show Windy City Live in all key demographics 
during the 11:00 a.m. The station also placed second among the early-evening 
newscasts in all younger demographics (behind WLS-TV) with a 50% increase 
in viewership at 4:00 p.m. compared to the syndicated programming that 
filled that hour in May 2014.[83] In the February 2015 local ratings, the 
9:00 p.m. newscast placed first among the market's prime time newscasts 
with a 5.0 rating, which although down a share of 0.3 compared to February 
2014, was still ahead of WFLD's 2.5 rating for its late newscast.[84] In 
addition to providing weather forecasts for WGN-TV, the WGN Weathercenter 
Team also provides forecasts for the Chicago Tribune, WGN (720 kHz) and 
CLTV. (now at CNN) Throughout its history, WGN-TV has had a long association 
with Chicago sports. Each of the city's major professional sports franchises, 
along with several local collegiate teams, have had their games regularly 
televised on channel 9. WGN-TV maintains contracts with the Chicago Cubs, 
White Sox, Chicago Bulls and Blackhawks for the right to broadcast their 
games (with some local television rights shared with Comcast SportsNet 
Chicago); due to WGN's network affiliation contracts that limit the number 
of programming preemptions annually, some games produced by the station 
may instead air locally on WPWR-TV (certain game telecasts produced by 
WGN-TV had previously aired on WCIU-TV from 1999 to 2014). WGN-TV also 
distributes its telecasts of White Sox and Bulls games to television stations 
in Illinois, Indiana and Iowa that are within each team's designated market 
area (including sister stations WHO-DT in Des Moines and WQAD in Davenport, 
Iowa, which both carry games on digital subchannels; and fellow CW affiliate 
WISH-TV in Indianapolis).[124][125][126] WGN Sports has historically had 
a long relationship with the Chicago Cubs, dating to the two organizations' 
mutual ownership under the Tribune Company from 1981 to 2008. In November 
2013, the team exercised an option to terminate its existing deal with 
WGN after the 2014 season (it was originally set to end in 2022), and demanded 
a higher-valued contract lasting through the 2019 season. On January 7, 
2015, WGN-TV announced that it would maintain broadcast rights to 45 Cubs 
games per-season through the 2019 season, all of which would air within 
the Chicago market; the remaining games are aired by Comcast SportsNet 
Chicago and ABC owned-and-operated station WLS-TV.[127][128] When permitted 
under its contracts, WGN America occasionally aired national simulcasts 
of WGN's sports programming. In May 2014, Tribune announced that it would 
no longer carry WGN Sports telecasts on WGN America beginning in 2015. 
Tribune Media president and CEO Peter Liguori cited limited viewership 
and advertising revenue generated from the sports broadcasts relative to 
its expense (the Cubs package cost five times as much for rights fees alone 
as the revenue it brought in), and his personal dislike of the Cubs in 
particular, as the reasoning for the change.[129] However, WGN-TV broadcasts 
of Cubs and White Sox games often are available on the DirecTV version 
of the MLB Extra Innings package, complete with local commercials and station 
promos not shown on WGN America in recent years. This also is the case 
for WGN-produced games shown on WPWR-TV, as well as WLS-TV broadcasts. 
On October 1, 2012, WGN-TV aired a Monday Night Football game between the 
Chicago Bears and the Dallas Cowboys locally (NFL rules require national 
games aired by cable networks to be syndicated to broadcast stations in 
the participating teams' home markets). Although WLS-TV has right of first 
refusal to MNF due to its corporate parent The Walt Disney Company's majority 
ownership of ESPN, WLS passed on carrying the game in order to broadcast 
Dancing with the Stars live instead.[130] In addition to its newscasts, 
WGN-TV also produces other local non-news or topical programs; these include 
public affairs programs People to People (hosted by anchor Micah Materre, 
covering community events and major local and national news stories from 
the past week) and Adelante, Chicago (hosted by anchor Lourdes Duarte, 
featuring topical discussions and feature segments focusing on Chicago's 
Hispanic community), which air bi-weekly on Saturday mornings; and lifestyle 
program Chicago's Best (hosted by Brittney Payton and Elliott Bambrough, 
focusing on cuisine, attractions and events throughout Chicago).[131] In 
addition, the station broadcasts several local events including the McDonald's 
Thanksgiving Parade,[132] and the Mummers Parade in Philadelphia (by arrangement 
with its MyNetworkTV-affiliated sister station in that market, WPHL-TV); 
WGN-TV previously held rights to the Bud Billiken Parade from 1978 to 2012, 
with WLS-TV (which had also been airing the parade since 1984) gaining 
primary rights to the broadcast beginning in 2013.[133] WGN-TV was the 
final originating station for the Illinois Lottery, whose twice daily drawings 
were held at the station's Bradley Place studios, until October 1, 2015, 
when the lottery began to use random number generators from their headquarters 
to draw winning numbers[134] . WGN-TV lost the rights to the Illinois Lottery 
drawings to Fox-owned WFLD in 1987, and then reacquired the rights from 
CBS-owned WBBM-TV in 1994.[135][136] Except for instances in which the 
evening drawing could not air due to sports clearance restrictions that 
prevented news simulcasts from airing outside of Chicago, all drawings 
(including those of the multi-state Mega Millions and Powerball) were simulcast 
on WGN America, which until they were dropped by the channel on December 
12, 2014, made Illinois the only state-run lottery in the U.S. whose drawings 
are broadcast nationwide.[137][138] In Canada, WGN-TV is available on most 
cable television providers as well as on satellite providers Bell TV and 
Shaw Direct, typically as part of a la carte superstation packages available 
to subscribers of premium cable channels (such as The Movie Network and 
its sister service The Movie Network Encore, Movie Central, Super Channel 
and Encore Avenue). Bell TV has always carried the Chicago area feed, in 
lieu of the station's now-former superstation feed; however, Shaw Direct 
and many cable providers in that country replaced WGN America with WGN-TV/Chicago 
on January 17, 2007, due to Shaw Broadcast Services (the primary supplier 
of the WGN superstation feed in Canada) switching the WGN feed distributed 
in that country from the superstation feed to the Chicago area signal. 
As a result of its carriage by Canadian cable and satellite providers, 
WGN-TV provided CW network programs to most areas of Canada that are located 
farther away from the U.S. border and therefore may be out of reach from 
the over-the-air signals of other CW affiliates from American cities located 
near the Canada–US border. WGN's sports output is also available in Canada 
through these means, as complete blackouts of programming whose rights 
are owned by Canadian broadcasters only apply to U.S. specialty channels 
carried in Canada, and not over-the-air channels. However, simultaneous 
substitution rules may still apply to CW programming that is also being 
aired by Canadian terrestrial channels. The WGN feed has at times been 
used for NHL Center Ice on some systems. Due to the channel's conversion 
from a superstation into a basic cable channel the day prior, Tribune Broadcasting 
sent notice on December 15, 2014, that it would terminate all national 
distribution rights for WGN America within Canada, effective January 1, 
2015.[139] While the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission 
(CRTC) had approved the Chicago station's broadcast signal and its national 
cable feed for carriage on any domestic multichannel video programming 
distributor (including cable, satellite, IPTV and MMDS providers), the 
move was likely due to genre protection rules then enforced by the Commission 
that prohibited general entertainment programming formats by domestic or 
foreign cable channels. WGN-TV's distribution in the country was not affected 
by the change, as it is still authorized for domestic distribution as a 
