WGN Sports is the programming division of WGN-TV (channel 9), an independent 
television station located in Chicago, Illinois, United States – which 
is owned by the Tribune Broadcasting subsidiary of Tribune Media – that 
is responsible for all sports broadcasts on the station, some of which 
were previously also broadcast on its former national superstation feed 
WGN America. In the Chicago market, WGN-produced telecasts of Chicago Cubs, 
White Sox, Bulls and Blackhawks games also occasionally air on independent 
station WCIU-TV (channel 26), under the brand "WGN Sports on The U", and 
MyNetworkTV owned-and-operated station WPWR-TV (channel 50), under the 
brand "WGN Sports on My50". Game telecasts produced by WGN-TV are also 
syndicated to television stations in Illinois, Indiana and Iowa. Throughout 
its history, WGN-TV has had a long-standing association with Chicago sports. 
Perhaps with the exception of the NFL's Chicago Bears, each of the city's 
major professional sports franchises, along with several area collegiate 
teams, have had their games regularly televised over channel 9. The station's 
relationship with the Chicago Cubs traces back to channel 9's inception 
in April 1948, and was further cemented during the 28 years (from 1981 
to 2009) that the Tribune Company owned the National League franchise. 
At the same time, channel 9 was also broadcasting games from Chicago's 
American League team, the White Sox. Jack Brickhouse, the longtime sports 
director (and later, vice president of sports programming) for the WGN 
television and radio stations, handled play-by-play announcing duties for 
the home games of both teams until 1967, when the White Sox ended their 
first stint on WGN-TV, and continued to call Cubs games until his retirement 
from broadcasting in 1981. With both teams, Brickhouse called over 5,000 
baseball games during his career, sharing the booth with announcers such 
as Milo Hamilton, Lou Boudreau, Vince Lloyd and Lloyd Pettit. Over the 
years, the number of Cubs games on WGN gradually decreased (down to 70 
per season by 2008, which by that time were split between WGN-TV and WCIU-TV) 
as it began sharing the rights to the Cubs as well as the White Sox with 
regional cable sports networks (including SportsChannel Chicago, later 
FSN Chicago, and presently with Comcast SportsNet Chicago when that network 
launched in 2006), culminating with Tribune's $845 million sale of the 
team to Thomas S. Ricketts (son of TD Ameritrade founder J. Joseph Ricketts) 
in August 2009.[1][2] On November 5, 2013, the Cubs exercised an option 
to opt out of their television contract with WGN-TV following the 2014 
season; as part of the opt-out clause exercise, the team gave the station 
a 30-day window to make a counteroffer for a deal lasting through the 2019 
season – which, in any instance, would raise the rights fees that WGN pays 
the team from an annual rate of $20 million, and align the contract with 
the end of the team's cable rights deal.[3] On January 7, 2014, WGN-TV 
announced a deal with the Cubs to air a reduced slate of 45 games per season 
beginning in 2015; the remaining 25 over-the-air Cubs telecasts would air 
on ABC owned-and-operated station WLS-TV (channel 7), which acquired partial 
broadcast rights to those games in December 2014.[4] WGN-TV regained the 
broadcast rights to the White Sox in 1973, although it opted to enter into 
a contract with then-competing independent station WSNS-TV (channel 44, 
now a Telemundo owned-and-operated station) to have that station carry 
the games, an arrangement that lasted through the 1980 season. With this, 
White Sox broadcaster Harry Caray joined the WGN family, occasionally sitting 
in as a sports anchor on the station's newscasts during the 1970s. Channel 
9 exclusively carried White Sox games in 1981, but lost that team's rights 
to another independent station competitor WFLD-TV (channel 32, now a Fox 
owned-and-operated station) the following year. With the retirement of 
Brickhouse after the 1981 season, Caray was dispatched from the South Side 
to replace him as the Cubs' lead television voice. For the next 16 years, 
primarily working with analyst Steve Stone, Caray further established his 
place among Chicago's most-beloved personalities. Like Brickhouse, Caray 
was known for displaying an unapologetic, home team-oriented enthusiasm 
to his game calls, punctuated with memorable signature catchphrases for 
big plays (such as Caray's "Holy Cow!" and Brickhouse's "Hey-hey!"). Caray 
also brought his unique rendition of "Take Me Out to the Ball Game" during 
the seventh-inning stretch to the channel 9 broadcast booth. With WGN-TV's 
emerging prominence as a national superstation during the 1980s and 1990s, 
Caray's fan base – and that of the Cubs – grew beyond Chicago and the Midwestern 
United States. The team's eight-year run on WFLD ended with it and the 
Sox involved in a lawsuit over allegations by station representatives of 
team mismanagement that resulted in declining viewership for the games 
and profit losses for WFLD on the contract (which respectively slid from 
a 5.1 rating share and $1.5 million profit in 1985 to a 1.7 share and $1.4 
million loss in 1988, resulting in the rights fees costing four times more 
than the accrued revenue) as well as breached advertising agreements with 
the Chicagoland Dodge Dealers auto franchise. Following an out-of-court 
settlement between the team and WFLD station management, the White Sox 
announced on September 14, 1989, that it would move its local telecasts 
back to WGN-TV beginning with the 1990 season, when co-owner Jerry Reinsdorf 
(a Chicago-area attorney and real estate investor) agreed to long-term 
deals with the station for both the Sox and his NBA franchise, the Chicago 
Bulls.[5][6][7][8] The Bulls originally broadcast their games on channel 
9 from the team's inception in 1966 until 1973, and again from 1976 until 
1985. Jack Brickhouse, Lorn Brown, Milo Hamilton and Bob Costas were among 
those assigned to work as Bulls play-by-play announcers, with Johnny "Red" 
Kerr serving as an analyst. After losing the rights to WFLD for four years 
through the same agreement that resulted in that station also re-acquiring 
the local television rights to the White Sox,[6] the team's games returned 
to WGN-TV for the start of the 1989–90 season, just in time for the Bulls' 
dominance of the NBA during the Michael Jordan era. The NHL's Chicago Blackhawks 
first had their games carried by the station from 1961 until 1975. WGN-TV's 
broadcasts were limited to away games, as the Blackhawks' owner at the 
time, Bill Wirtz, had long prohibited televised coverage of his team's 
home games in order to sustain ticket sales. Following the elder Wirtz's 
death in September 2007, his son Rocky Wirtz and successor ended the home 
game television blackout; on March 30, 2008, the Blackhawks announced a 
broadcasting agreement with channel 9 (which became the team's new broadcast 
television home) and Comcast SportsNet Chicago that would allow both broadcasters 
to carry a divided schedule of the team's home and away games beginning 
with the 2008–09 season.[9][10] The station has aired 20 Blackhawks games 
per season, starting with a three-year contract that began in the 2008–09 
campaign. On February 15, 2011, it was announced that the team had renewed 
their broadcast contract with WGN-TV for five additional years through 
the 2015–16 NHL season.[11] In November 2010, WGN-TV became the home for 
Chicago Bears preseason and regular season games that are not carried by 
a broadcast network, simulcasting games televised on NFL Network's Thursday 
Night Football; under NFL rules, games that air on cable networks are required 
to be simulcast on a local broadcast station in each team's home market. 
This marked the first time that WGN broadcast games from all five major 
Chicago sports teams during the course of a single season; the Bears simulcasts 
were not carried on WGN America. Along with its coverage of professional 
teams, WGN-TV also currently holds broadcast rights to the Illinois Derby, 
Hawthorne Gold Cup Handicap and Arlington Million horse races, the broadcasts 
of which were limited to the Chicago area signal during the latter years 
of WGN America's tenure as the station's national feed. The station had 
formerly broadcast football and basketball games from Chicago area college 
teams – such as Northwestern University, DePaul University and Loyola University 
– and other teams of the Big Ten Conference. In 1996, WGN-TV temporarily 
lost the rights to broadcast Chicago Bulls basketball games after the National 
Basketball Association filed a lawsuit over WGN's national transmission 
of the team's games over its then superstation feed. This decision led 
cable provider Tele-Communications, Inc. (TCI) to remove the national WGN 
channel from some of its systems outside the Chicago area. TCI cited the 
loss of Bulls broadcast rights, along with its own decision to make room 
for additional cable channels, as the reasons behind its decision to drop 
the superstation feed; however, viewer outcry over the decision in some 
markets led TCI to back off its plans to drop the national WGN feed from 
its systems in five Midwestern states.[12][13][14] On July 8, 1999, WGN-TV 
and independent station WCIU-TV entered into a sports programming arrangement,[15] 
in which the latter station would carry select Bulls and White Sox games, 
and a limited number of Cubs games, that are produced by and contracted 
to air on WGN-TV for exclusive broadcast within the Chicago market. This 
is due to network affiliation contracts (first enforced by The WB, and 
presently by The CW) that limit the number of programming preemptions on 
an annual basis,[16][17][18][19] and broadcasting restrictions put in place 
by the NBA which limited the WGN national feed to air only fifteen Bulls 
games per season[20] (though these national broadcasts usually varied between 
10 and 20 telecasts depending on the year for the remainder of WGN America's 
national broadcast rights to the games). The remaining Bulls games produced 
by WGN-TV were split between the station's Chicago area signal and WCIU-TV. 
Until 2015, Blackhawks games aired on channel 9 were also exclusive to 
the Chicago market (in this case, this was due to the NHL's exclusive broadcast 
contracts, such as its deal with NBCUniversal that began in 2008). On February 
19, 2015, WCIU owner Weigel Broadcasting terminated its agreement with 
Tribune to carry WGN-produced Cubs and White Sox telecasts, in an effort 
to limit scheduling conflicts with channel 26's then-recently launched 
early-prime time newscast (produced through a news share agreement with 
WLS-TV); WPWR-TV replaced WCIU as WGN's overflow outlet for these baseball 
games.[21] Restrictions similar to those that affected WGN America (as 
well as the absence of contractual streaming rights) also prevent WGN-TV 
from running sports highlights during live streams of the station's newscasts 
on the WGNTV.com website (unusual since some stations, including a few 
of WGN-TV/WGN America's Tribune-owned sister stations, have had permission 
to run sports highlights during live streams of local newscasts on their 
websites and mobile applications), which are replaced with a screen noting 
the restrictions as the audio portion of the sports segments are streamed. 
As a result of the transfer of the Chicago CW affiliation from WGN-TV to 
WPWR on September 1, 2016, per an exemption included by Tribune in its 
May 2016 affiliation agreement with CW managing partner CBS Corporation 
that renewed affiliations for twelve of Tribune's 13 CW-affiliated stations, 
WGN Sports is expected to migrate Cubs, White Sox, Bulls and Blackhawks 
sports telecasts produced by the station that it had previously deferred 
to WPWR and WCIU exclusively to Channel 9 once it converts into an independent 
station.[22][23][24] During the 37 years that it served as the national 
feed of WGN-TV, its superstation feed – which eventually became known as 
WGN America – carried most of the station's sports telecasts outside of 
the Chicago market. Between 1978 and 1990, WGN-TV's Chicago signal was 
distributed nationwide, resulting in viewers outside of Chicago being able 
to watch the station's sports telecasts as they were seen locally (with 
local advertising and station promotions intact), unless the games were 
blacked out by request from local stations that had the exclusive market 
rights to the Chicago teams' opponents. Until 2014, the national channel 
aired all Cubs and White Sox games and about 10 to 20 Chicago Bulls NBA 
games that WGN-TV televised locally in the Chicago market. As part of Tribune's 
conversion of the network from a superstation into a general entertainment 
cable channel, the company announced that WGN America would no longer broadcast 
Chicago Cubs, Bulls and White Sox games. Tribune Media president and chief 
executive officer Peter Liguori cited limited revenue and viewership accrued 
from the broadcasts (revenue was reportedly only covering 20% of the rights 
fees) behind the decision to drop the national telecasts; several seasons 
of sub-par play by the Cubs (whose television package cost five times as 
much for rights fees alone as the revenue it brought in for the national 
broadcasts) after Tribune's sale of the team to Thomas S. Ricketts in late 
2009.[25] Even prior to the decision, WGN America had chosen not to air 
certain sports related programming carried on the Chicago signal such as 
the Blackhawks' victory parade following the 2010 Stanley Cup Playoffs 
and a half-hour special paying tribute to the late Cubs player and broadcaster 
Ron Santo in 2011 (although a few Tribune and Local TV-owned partner stations 
aired the funeral on their digital subchannels and the Blackhawks' victory 
parade was shown on the NHL Network using the WGN-TV feed). The last sports 
telecast from WGN-TV to air on WGN America was a Chicago Bulls NBA game 
against the Golden State Warriors that aired on December 6, 2014. Outside 
of stations in Illinois, Indiana and Iowa that carry the games through 
syndication agreements, WGN-produced sports telecasts are now only viewable 
elsewhere in North America via Canadian television providers that carry 
the Chicago television station's signal or through the out-of-market sports 
packages NHL Center Ice (for Blackhawks telecasts), NBA League Pass (for 
Bulls telecasts) and MLB Extra Innings (for Cubs and White Sox telecasts). 
Prior to striking agreements with other stations in Illinois and Indiana 
to carry Blackhawks games in 2015, these methods were the only ways that 
American viewers could view WGN's Blackhawks game coverage outside the 
Chicago market, since WGN America was not permitted to carry the team's 
games. Beginning with the 2015 Major League Baseball season, Cubs and White 
Sox games aired by WGN-TV in the Chicago area became available nationally 
through the DirecTV version of Extra Innings via the station's local feed, 
and incorporates local commercials and station promos that were omitted 
from the national simulcasts on WGN America in recent years. Dating back 
to at least the early 1980s, WGN-TV had syndicated its Cubs and White Sox 
telecasts to television stations in parts of the Midwestern U.S. (among 
them, WCEE (now Daystar owned-and-operated station WPXS) in East St. Louis, 
Illinois-St. Louis, Missouri, during its tenure as an independent station); 
select Bulls games aired by WGN and WCIU were also simulcast to many of 
these same stations and others within the team's designated market territory. 
All White Sox, Bulls and Cubs games televised on WCIU began to be syndicated 
to local stations in central Illinois and Iowa through the "WGN Sports 
Network" service beginning with the teams' 2011 seasons. With the conversion 
of WGN America into a traditional cable channel, WGN-TV chose to expand 
distribution of its Chicago Cubs, White Sox, Bulls and Blackhawks telecasts 
through syndication agreements with television stations in Illinois, Indiana 
and Iowa – primarily those affiliated with The CW and MyNetworkTV – that 
are within each team's designated market area (including sister stations 
WHO-DT (channel 13) in Des Moines and WQAD-TV (channel 8) in Moline, Illinois 
– respectively affiliated with NBC and ABC – which carry WGN's baseball 
telecasts on their respective Antenna TV- and MyNetworkTV-affiliated digital 
subchannels).[26][27][28][29] Most notably, WISH-TV (channel 8) in Indianapolis 
reached agreements to carry the station's Cubs, White Sox and Blackhawks 
telecasts (as well as games from the former that are produced by WLS-TV) 
as part of its efforts to restore sports content to its lineup in the months 
following the loss of its CBS affiliation – ironically, to WGN-TV sister 
station WTTV (channel 4) – and its subsequent switch to The CW in January 
2015. Some games also air on MyNetworkTV-affiliated sister WNDY-TV (channel 
23) due to pre-emption limitations included in The CW's affiliation contracts. 
WISH and WNDY do not carry Bulls telecasts due to the presence of the Indiana 
Pacers (and due to restrictions enforced by the NBA on regional broadcasts 
outside of a team's designated territory), whose games air on Fox Sports 
