The wheel play is a baseball strategy designed to defend against a sacrifice 
bunt (or tap hit) in a close game in situations in which the offense has 
a runner on second (or sometimes runners on first and second) and there 
are no outs (or occasionally with one out). This circumstance can make 
it imperative for the defense to get the lead runner out because the offense 
can score without a hit if there is a man at third base with fewer than 
two outs. The play's name derives from the wheel-like rotation of the infielders. 
The wheel play is a unique bunt defense in that the play is designed to 
get the lead runner out at third. Most bunt defense strategies give the 
priority to making sure the team gets one out at first.[1] The play begins 
with the shortstop breaking to cover third base. As the pitch is thrown, 
the third and first basemen rush toward home plate to be able to field 
the bunted ball as quickly as possible while the second basemen runs to 
cover first base. Additionally, the pitcher moves to back up the fielder 
on the side his pitching momentum carries him towards.[2] Ideally for the 
defense, if the ball is bunted, it goes directly to one of the charging 
fielders only a few feet past home plate. If it is bunted right at a fielder, 
the play is to throw to the shortstop (covering third base) for the tag 
or force out if permitted by the existence of a trail runner. The offense 
may try to defeat the wheel play in one of several ways. If the offense 
suspects the defense will put on the wheel play, and if sees the shortstop 
break for third too early or too late, it may send the runner(s) on a straight 
steal. If the shortstop leaves early, the runner on second will take a 
"walking lead" off the second base bag, and can be most or all of the way 
to third when the catcher takes the pitch. If the shortstop leaves too 
late, the man on second runs with the expectation that the shortstop cannot 
acquire position to take the throw on the steal.The key for the defense 
is for the pitcher to use the inside pickoff move once or a few times to 
keep the runner at 2nd from straying toward third too early and perhaps 
picking him off. Either way, the effort by the catcher to throw to a moving 
target in the shortstop opens the possibility of an error permitting additional 
advance on the bases. Additionally, a man on first takes second without 
contest, as it will be uncovered. But if the shortstop has the play timed 
right, the runner from second will be caught stealing, generally with ease. 
Alternately, the offense can send the runners towards the next base while 
instructing the hitter to use a "butcher boy" swing—show a bunting stance 
as the pitcher begins his delivery, but twist back and swing in full as 
the pitch arrives. The objective is to put a batted ball into the vacated 
middle of the field and produce a multiple base advance by the runners. 
However, because the hitter is moving so much, and since hitters called 
upon to bunt are often amongst the weakest hitters on the team, it is unusual 
for the "butcher boy" swing to yield the requisite batted ball, and more 
common for it to result in a swinging or fouled strike. That event subsequently 
limits a hitter's options as the at-bat proceeds, especially if he now 
has two strikes, which often nullifies a bunting strategy. Defenses generally 
do not rely on the wheel play in bunt situations where the bunter is deemed 
a good enough hitter to be able to execute the "butcher boy" swing. Instead, 
the third baseman and shortstop will hold their positions, and the defense 
will rely on the pitcher to field the ball, and concede an advance to third 
if the bunt is well executed. One of the earliest recorded instances of 
the wheel play being used in the major leagues was when it was executed 
by the Pittsburgh Pirates against the St. Louis Cardinals on August 14, 
1960, resulting, as reported by The Pittsburgh Press, in "an electrifying 
double play [...] that had the 36,775 fans screaming."[3] Several Pirate 
players and coaches said they had never seen the play before, but the Pirate 
players who executed the play attributed the original idea to former Cubs 
