The White Flag Trade was a trade made between two Major League Baseball 
teams in 1997. On July 31, 1997, the Chicago White Sox traded three major 
players to the San Francisco Giants for six minor leaguers. At the time, 
the trade was maligned by the vast majority of White Sox fans as Jerry 
Reinsdorf giving up on the team, as they were only 3 1⁄2 games behind the 
Cleveland Indians for the American League Central Division lead. [1] In 
2000, however, the White Sox won the Central Division title, receiving 
large contributions from two of the players received in this trade (Keith 
Foulke and Bob Howry). The San Francisco Giants received: The Chicago White 
Sox received: The San Francisco Giants went on to win the National League 
Western Division title with a 90-72 record, two games better than the Los 
Angeles Dodgers. The Chicago White Sox finished 80-81, six games behind 
the American League Central Division champion Cleveland Indians. The Giants 
were swept by the Florida Marlins in the National League Division Series. 
Incidentally, the Indians also lost to the Marlins in the World Series. 
In 2000, the White Sox won the American League Central with a league-best 
record of 95-67. They made the playoffs but were swept in the Division 
Series by the American League wild card team, the Seattle Mariners. Foulke 
and Howry were a large part of their bullpen, with Foulke earning 34 saves 
in his role as closer. However, the collapse of their offensive production 
from the middle of their batting order, which went a combined 3-for-40 
in the series proved to be their downfall in the series as they were swept 
in three games. The 2000 San Francisco Giants also won their division, 
with a league-best record of 97-65. However, none of the players acquired 
from the 1997 trade were still playing with the team during the 2000 season. 
The Giants also lost in the Division Series, this time to the New York 
Mets. As of the end of the 2010 season, none of the players acquired in 
the trade by either team are playing for the team to which they were traded. 
Only Foulke is an active player but is not currently playing in the Major 
Leagues. On December 8, 2008, Howry reunited with the Giants, signing a 
one-year contract. Manning never made it to the major leagues, and Vining 
only played 8 games with the White Sox during his Major League career. 
Shortstop Mike Caruso showed signs of being a solid hitter, batting .306 
