"Who's on First?" is a comedy routine made famous by Abbott and Costello. 
The premise of the sketch is that Abbott is identifying the players on 
a baseball team for Costello, but their names and nicknames can be interpreted 
as non-responsive answers to Costello's questions. For example, the first 
baseman is named "Who"; thus, the utterance "Who's on first" is ambiguous 
between the question ("Which person is the first baseman?") and the answer 
("The name of the first baseman is 'Who'"). "Who's on First?" is descended 
from turn-of-the-century burlesque sketches that used plays on words and 
names. Examples are "The Baker Scene" (the shop is located on Watt Street) 
and "Who Dyed" (the owner is named "Who"). In the 1930 movie Cracked Nuts, 
comedians Bert Wheeler and Robert Woolsey examine a map of a mythical kingdom 
with dialogue like this: "What is next to Which." "What is the name of 
the town next to Which?" "Yes." In English music halls (England's equivalent 
of vaudeville theatres), comedian Will Hay performed a routine in the early 
1930s (and possibly earlier) as a schoolmaster interviewing a schoolboy 
named Howe who came from Ware but now lives in Wye. By the early 1930s, 
a "Baseball Routine" had become a standard bit for burlesque comics across 
the United States. Abbott's wife recalled him performing the routine with 
another comedian before teaming with Costello.[1] Bud Abbott stated that 
it was taken from an older routine called "Who's The Boss?", a performance 
of which can be heard in an episode of the radio comedy program It Pays 
to Be Ignorant from the 1940s.[2] After they formally teamed up in burlesque 
in 1936, he and Costello continued to hone the sketch. It was a big hit 
in 1937, when they performed the routine in a touring vaudeville revue 
called "Hollywood Bandwagon".[1] In February 1938, Abbott and Costello 
joined the cast of The Kate Smith Hour radio program, and the sketch was 
first performed for a national radio audience that March.[1] The routine 
may have been further polished before this broadcast by burlesque producer 
John Grant, who became the team's writer, and Will Glickman, a staff writer 
on the radio show.[3] Glickman may have added the nicknames of then-contemporary 
baseball players like Dizzy and Daffy Dean to set up the routine's premise. 
This version, with extensive wordplay based on the fact that most of the 
fictional baseball team's players had "strange nicknames" that seemed to 
be questions, became known as "Who's on First?" Some versions continue 
with references to Enos Slaughter, which Costello misunderstands as "He 
knows" Slaughter. By 1944, Abbott and Costello had the routine copyrighted. 
Abbott and Costello performed "Who's on First?" numerous times in their 
careers, rarely performing it exactly the same way twice. They did the 
routine for President Franklin Roosevelt several times. An abridged version 
was featured in the team's 1940 film debut, One Night in the Tropics. The 
duo reprised the bit in their 1945 film The Naughty Nineties, and it is 
that longer version which is considered their finest recorded rendition.[a] 
They also performed "Who's on First?" numerous times on radio and television 
(notably in The Abbott and Costello Show episode "The Actor's Home", widely 
considered the definitive version). In 1956, a gold record of "Who's on 
First?" was placed in the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum in 
Cooperstown, New York. A video (taken from The Naughty Nineties) now plays 
continuously on screens at the Hall. In the 1970s, Selchow and Righter 
published a "Who's on First?" board game. In 1999, Time named the routine 
Best Comedy Sketch of the 20th century.[4] An early radio recording was 
placed in the Library of Congress's National Recording Registry in 2003. 
In 2005, the line "Who's on First?" was included on the American Film Institute's 
list of 100 memorable movie quotations. The names given in the routine 
for the players at each position are: The name of the shortstop is not 
given until the very end of the routine, and the right fielder is never 
identified. In the Selchow and Righter board game, the right fielder's 
name is "Nobody".[5] At one point in the routine, Costello thinks that 
the first baseman is named Naturally: Abbott: You throw the ball to first 
base. Costello: Then who gets it? Abbott: Naturally. Costello: Naturally. 
Abbott: Now you've got it. Costello: I throw the ball to Naturally. Abbott: 
You don't! You throw it to Who! Costello: Naturally. Abbott: Well, that's 
it—say it that way. Costello: That's what I said. Abbott: You did not. 
Costello: I said I throw the ball to Naturally. Abbott: You don't! You 
throw it to Who! Costello: Naturally. Abbott's explanations leave Costello 
hopelessly confused and infuriated, until the end of the routine when Costello 
finally appears to catch on. Costello: Now I throw the ball to first base, 
whoever it is drops the ball, so the guy runs to second. Who picks up the 
ball and throws it to What. What throws it to I Don't Know. I Don't Know 
throws it back to Tomorrow—a triple play. Abbott: Yeah, it could be. Costello: 
Another guy gets up and it's a long fly ball to Because. Why? I don't know. 
He's on third, and I don't give a darn! Abbott: What was that? Costello: 
I said, I DON'T GIVE A DARN! Abbott: Oh, that's our shortstop! That is 
the most commonly heard ending. "I Don't Care" and "I Don't Give a Damn" 
have also turned up on occasion, depending on the perceived sensibilities 
of the audience. The skit was usually performed on the team's radio series 
at the start of the baseball season. In one instance it serves as a climax 
for a broadcast which begins with Costello receiving a telegram from Joe 
DiMaggio asking Costello to take over for him due to his injury.[6] (In 
this case, the unidentified right fielder would have been Costello himself. 
While Joe DiMaggio was best known as a center fielder, when Abbott and 
Costello honed the sketch in 1936-7, Joe DiMaggio had played a number of 
games at right field (20 in 1936).[7]) Numerous people over the years have 
claimed credit for writing the sketch, but such claims typically lack reasonable 
corroboration. For example, in a 1993 obituary of comedy sketch writer 
Michael J. Musto, it stated that shortly after Abbott and Costello teamed 
up, they paid Musto $15 to write the script.[8] Furthermore, several 1996 
obituaries of songwriter Irving Gordon mention that he had written the 
sketch.[9][10] The sketch has been reprised, updated, alluded to, and parodied 
innumerable times over the years in all forms of media. Some notable examples 
