In the sport of cricket, a wide is one of two things: A wide does not count 
as one of the six balls in an over and it does not count as a ball faced 
by the batsman. When a wide is bowled, one run is added to the runs scored 
off that ball, and is scored as extras and are added to the team's total, 
but are not added to any batsman's total. A batsman cannot, by definition, 
be out bowled, leg before wicket, caught, or hit the ball twice off a wide, 
as a ball cannot be ruled as a wide if the ball strikes the batsman's bat 
or person. He may be out handled the ball, hit wicket, obstructing the 
field, run out, or stumped. If the wicket-keeper fumbles or misses the 
ball, the batsmen may be able to take additional runs safely, and may choose 
to do so. The number of runs scored are scored as wides, not byes. These 
extra wides are all added to the bowler's score. If the wicket-keeper misses 
the ball and it travels all the way to the boundary, the batting team immediately 
scores five wides, similarly as if the ball had been hit to the boundary 
for a four on a no ball. If a wide ball crosses the boundary without touching 
the ground, only five wides (not seven) are scored - according to Law 19.5, 
a boundary six can only be scored if the ball has touched the bat. If a 
ball qualifies as a no ball as well as a wide, the umpire will call it 
a no ball instead of a wide, and all the rules for a no ball apply. Wides 
are considered to be the fault of the bowler, and are recorded as a negative 
statistic in a bowler's record. However, this has only been the case since 
the early 1980s - the first Test to record wides (and no-balls) against 
the bowler's analyses was India vs Pakistan in September 1983. Wides used 
to be relatively rare, but regulations have been added in many competitions 
to enforce a much stricter interpretation in order to deter defensive bowling, 
and the number of wides has increased sharply. In one-day cricket, most 
deliveries that pass the batsman on the leg side without hitting the stumps 
are now called as wides. In the semi-finals and final of the first World 
Cup in 1975, there were 79 extras, of which 9 were wides (11.4%); in the 
semi-finals and final of the World Cup in 2011, there were 77 extras, of 
which 46 were wides (59.7%). In the six Tests of the 1970-71 Ashes series 
there were 9 wides; in the five Tests of the Ashes series of 2010-11 there 
were 52 wides. [1] The baseball equivalent of a wide is a called "ball" 
(short for "no ball"), in the sense that each is judged to be an "unfair" 
or "unhittable" delivery by the umpire. Baseball's "strike zone" provides 
a more precise definition than does cricket, leaving less to the umpire's 
judgment (he can still decide whether the ball must completely enter the 
zone, or only touch it, for a "ball" to be avoided). Unlike a wide, if 
the batter swings the bat, then the ball is deemed fair regardless of where 
it was thrown. An umpire straightens both his arms to form horizontal, 
