Wiffle ball is a variation of the sport of baseball designed for indoor 
or outdoor play in confined areas. The game is played using a perforated, 
light-weight, resilient plastic ball and a long, typically yellow, plastic 
bat. Miniature versions of baseball have been played for decades, including 
stickball, improvised by children, using everything from rolled up socks 
to tennis balls. The ball most commonly used in the game was invented by 
David N. Mullany at his home in Fairfield, Connecticut in 1953[1] when 
he designed a ball that curved easily for his 12-year-old son. It was named 
when his son and his friends would refer to a strikeout as a "whiff". The 
classic trademarked Wiffle Ball is about the same size as a regulation 
baseball, but is hollow, lightweight, of resilient plastic, no more than 
1/8 inch (3 mm) thick. One half is perforated with eight .75-inch (19 mm) 
oblong holes; the other half is non-perforated. This construction allows 
pitchers to throw a tremendous variety of curveballs and risers. Wiffle 
balls are typically packaged with a hollow, hard plastic, yellow bat that 
measures 32 inches (810 mm) in length and about 1.25 inches (32 mm) in 
diameter. Since the invention of the ball in 1953, the game became popular 
nationwide by the 1960s,[citation needed] played in backyards and on city 
streets and beaches. Tournaments have been the driving force in modern 
wiffle ball and have been held in the United States and Europe since 1977. 
That year, Rick Ferroli began holding tournaments in his backyard tribute 
to Fenway Park in Hanover, Massachusetts.[2] In 1980, the World Wiffleball 
Championship was established in Mishawaka, Indiana. With the explosion 
of the Internet in the 1990s, there are now hundreds of Wiffle ball tournaments 
played in the United States, most in the same place every year, with a 
few tournament "circuits". The World Wiffleball Championship remains the 
oldest tournament in the nation, having moved to Skokie, Illinois in 2013, 
after introducing regional stops over three decades in Baltimore; Los Angeles; 
Indianapolis; Eugene, Oregon; and Barcelona, Spain. The tournament is featured 
at #20 in the popular book, "101 Baseball Places to Visit Before You Strike 
Out." Some wiffle ball enthusiasts have taken field construction to inspiring 
heights, having built fields to resemble major league ballparks. Thomas 
P. Hannon, Jr. authored a book, Backyard Ball, on his experiences building 
a smaller version of Ebbets Field. Patrick M. O'Connor wrote a book, Little 
Fenway, about building his versions of Fenway Park and Wrigley Field.[3] 
But not all wiffleball fields have been modeled from major league ball 
parks. Some have created original fields, Strawberry Field in Encino, California 
being the most exquisite. Rick Messina spent over $700,000 constructing 
Strawberry Field, which features lights for night games, bleachers, and 
a press box.[4] He also converted a neighboring house into a clubhouse/pub.[5] 
Building fields can lead to controversy and legal issues. In 2008, The 
New York Times published an article about Greenwich, Connecticut teenagers 
who were forced by the city to tear down a wiffle ball field they had built 
because of neighbor complaints.[6] In April 2011, the government of the 
State of New York proclaimed that wiffle ball, as well as kickball, freeze 
tag, and dodgeball were "unsafe" and a "significant risk of injury" for 
children, and declared that any summer camp program that included two or 
more of such activities would be subject to government regulation.[7] The 
story often became a source of ridicule and amusement, with Parenting.com 
sarcastically commenting "According to new legislation introduced in New 
York State, to survive classic schoolyard games like capture the flag is 
to cheat death."[8] Wiffle Ball executives originally thought the order 
was a "joke". The company has never been sued over safety issues in its 
50+ year history.[9] The disapproval of people from across the nation pressured 
the New York legislature to remove wiffle ball and many other entries from 
the list of high risk activities, such as archery and scuba diving, that 
require state government oversight.[10] Wiffle brand products play a central 
role in Wiffle Ball Summer: The Ride of the Elmoron.[11] The nonfiction 
title was released in 2011 and details a bicycle journey taken by a man 
with a wiffle ball bat strapped to his bike frame. The final destination 
of his journey in the story is a large wiffle ball tournament in Lafayette, 
Ohio. In his book The Complete Far Side, cartoonist Gary Larson reproduces 
a letter he received after including a "wiffle bat" in his cartoon. The 
letter contains language from Wiffle Ball Incorporated's attorneys: "In 
the future, when you use the brand name WIFFLE, the entire brand should 
be capitalized, and it should only be used in reference to a product currently 
manufactured by The Wiffle Ball, Inc."[12] In science, it is frequently 
used by marine biologists as a size reference in photos to measure corals 
