A wild card (or wildcard, or wild-card) is, in general, a tournament or 
playoff berth awarded to an individual or team that has not qualified through 
normal play. In international sports, the term is perhaps best known in 
reference to big international sporting events such as the Olympic Games 
and Wimbledon. Countries which fail to produce athletes who meet qualification 
standards are granted "wild cards", which allow them to enter competitors 
whose proven abilities are below the standard otherwise required. In some 
instances, wild cards are given to the host nation in order to boost its 
chances. However, in Olympic and World Championship competitions in track 
and field and swimming, nations are automatically allowed to enter two 
competitors. Thus these are not wild cards. In some other Olympic sports, 
such as judo, archery and badminton, wild cards are in use, and they are 
granted by the respective sport federations. On rare occasions, a competitor 
who gained entry by wild card succeeds in winning a medal or the championship: 
Kye Sun-Hui won gold in judo at the 1996 Summer Olympics, Ding Junhui won 
the 2005 China Open snooker championship, Goran Ivanišević won the 2001 
Wimbledon Championships and Kim Clijsters won the 2009 US Open, and Lin 
Dan won the 2013 BWF World Championships. In North American professional 
sports leagues, "wild card" refers to a team that qualifies for the championship 
playoffs without winning their specific subdivision (usually called a conference 
or division) outright. The number of wild card teams varies. In most cases, 
the rules of the league call for the wild card team to survive an extra 
round and/or to play the majority of their postseason games away from home. 
The term "wild card" does not apply to postseason formats where a set number 
of teams per division qualify. Former examples include: the American Football 
League's 1969 playoffs (qualifying the top two finishers from each division), 
the National Basketball Association's 1967-through-1970 playoffs (top four 
finishers from each division) and 1971–1972 playoffs (top two finishers 
in each division), and the National Hockey League's 1968–1974 and 1982–1993 
playoffs (top four finishers from each division) are not true wild-card 
formats. When a wild-card playoff format is used, the number of teams in 
a division that qualify is not fixed; the divisional champion automatically 
qualifies, but non-division winners qualify, based either on league record 
or conference record. In Major League Baseball (MLB), wild-card playoff 
spots are given to the two teams in each league (four teams overall) with 
the best records among the non-division winners. The initial wild-card 
format was implemented after MLB expanded to 28 teams and realigned its 
two leagues to each have three divisions. Since a three-team playoff would 
require one team to receive a bye, the wild card was created to allow a 
fourth team. The wild card has been in effect since 1995, although it was 
supposed to be used in 1994; the postseason was canceled due to the players' 
strike. In 2012, a second wild card was added to each league. The two wild 
card teams in each league face each other in a one-game playoff, with the 
winner facing the number 1 seed in the Division Series. The advantages 
of the wild card format are that it allows a second- (or third-) place 
team a chance to win the World Series, even if there is a dominant division 
winner. As the wild cards are not awarded by division, the additional teams 
are part of league-wide races for the fourth and fifth spots. Critics of 
the wild card, such as broadcaster Bob Costas in his book Fair Ball: A 
Fan's Case for Baseball, have argued that, of the four major North American 
sports, baseball, having the most regular-season games (now 162), places 
the largest importance on the regular season, and the wild cards diminish 
the importance of the regular season by permitting a "second banana" team 
to make the playoffs, and that while it creates a league-wide race, it 
is for second place (and maybe third place) in a division, and takes away 
what would otherwise be a pennant race between first- and second-place 
teams, and can lead to teams playing for the wild card rather than to win 
the division. The second wild card was added in 2012 to address the issue 
of teams being content to rest players and win the wild card instead of 
trying to win the division. Also, because of the "sudden-death" round, 
these teams often use their best starting pitcher, leaving them unavailable 
for much of the Division Series. A wild-card team must surrender home-field 
advantage the first two rounds of the playoffs. For the World Series, however, 
home-field advantage is determined beforehand, without reference to wild-card 
status. Prior to 2003, it was decided by alternating each year between 
the American and National Leagues. Since 2003, it has been granted to the 
winner of the All-Star Game. In the 2002 World Series, both the Anaheim 
Angels and the San Francisco Giants were wild-card teams, as were the Giants 
and the Kansas City Royals in the 2014 World Series. The World Series champions 
in 1997, 2003, 2004 and 2011 were also wild-card teams. In the National 
Football League (NFL), each of the two conferences sends two wild-card 
teams along with four division champions to its postseason. The first round 
of the playoffs is called the "Wild Card Round". In this round, each conference's 
two best (by regular-season record) division champions are exempted from 
play and granted automatic berths in the "Divisional Round". The four division 
champions are seeded from #1 through #4, while the two wild card teams 
are seeded #5 and #6; within these separations, seeding is by regular-season 
record. In the "Wild Card Round", the #6 team (a wild card team) plays 
against the #3 team (a division champion) and the #5 team (a wild card 
team) plays against the #4 team (a division champion). The division champions 
have automatic home-field advantage in these games. In the "Divisional 
Round", the worst seeded remaining team plays the #1 seeded team, while 
the best seeded remaining team that played in the wildcard round plays 
the #2 seed. Both the #1 seed and #2 seed have home-field advantage in 
the divisional round. The NFL was the first league ever to use the wild-card 
format. When the league realigned into two conferences of three divisions 
each in 1970, it wanted an even four-team playoff field in each conference. 
This was established by having the three division champions in each conference 
joined by the best second-place finisher in the conference. At first, this 
team was referred as the "Best Second-Place Team" (or sometimes simply 
as the "Fourth Qualifier"). The media, however, began referring to the 
qualifying teams as "wild cards". Eventually, the NFL officially adopted 
the term. During the 1975, 1976, and 1977 seasons, the divisional playoffs 
featured the #1 seed hosting the wild card team and the #2 seed hosting 
the #3 seed unless the #1 seed and wild card team were divisional rivals. 
In that case, the #1 seed hosted the #3 seed and the #2 seed hosted the 
wild card team. This was also the format used in Major League Baseball 
from 1995 through 2011. In 1978 the playoffs were expanded to 10 teams, 
however, the restriction against teams in the same division playing each 
other in the divisional round continued until the playoffs expanded to 
12 teams in 1990. During this time, the #1 seed hosted the winner of the 
#4 vs #5 wild card game, while the #2 seed played the #3 seed. If the #1 
seed and the winner of the #4 vs #5 wild card game were in the same division, 
then the #1 seed played the #3 seed, while the #2 seed played the #4 vs 
#5 winner. When Major League Baseball expanded its playoffs to 10 teams 
in 2012, it also used this format, although teams in the same division 
could play each other in the Division Series. From 1970 through 1974, the 
NFL used a rotation to determine which teams would host conference semifinal 
and final games, and which teams would play which other teams (coincidentally, 
baseball also used a rotation when it began to have this number of teams, 
for both of the aforementioned purposes, from 1995–1997 before switching 
to the seeding method). The number of wild-card qualifiers was expanded 
to two per conference in 1978 — the divisional winners were granted a bye 
week while the wild card teams played (hence the origin of the phrase "Wild-Card 
Round"). Like wild card teams before, the wild card game winner played 
the #1 seed, or the #2 seed if they and the #1 seed were divisional rivals. 
The playoffs were expanded again to three wild cards per conference in 
1990 with the lowest ranked divisional winner losing its bye. Following 
the addition of the Houston Texans in 2002, the league added a fourth division 
to each conference. The league decided not to change the number of playoff 
teams, and thus the number of wild card qualifiers was reduced to two per 
conference, with the two lowest ranked divisional winners not receiving 
byes. Unlike in Major League Baseball, as of the start of the 2014 season, 
there has never been a meeting of two wild card teams in the Super Bowl. 
Wild card Super Bowl champions Other Wild card Super Bowl participants 
The 1980 Raiders, 2005 Steelers, and 1992 Bills tied for first in their 
division but lost a tiebreaker. While not a wild card team, the 1969 Kansas 
City Chiefs were the first non-division winner to win the Super Bowl. They 
finished second in the Western Division of the American Football League, 
and in that season, the last before the merger, the AFL went from having 
its two division winners meeting for the league title to adding a second 
round in which the second place team in each division qualified for the 
post-season. These teams played cross-division in the semifinal round. 
Thus the Chiefs, who finished second in the West, defeated the East Division 
champion New York Jets in the AFL semifinals and then defeated the West 
Division champion Oakland Raiders to advance to Super Bowl IV, where they 
beat the Minnesota Vikings. Because the term "wild card" was not instituted 
until the following year, the Chiefs are not included in the above list, 
but are recognized as the first team to win the Super Bowl without winning 
a division title. Although the National Basketball Association (NBA) include 
wild-card teams in their playoff structures, the term "wild card" is seldom 
used; instead, each playoff team is most commonly denoted by its seeding 
position within the conference. In the NBA, division champions within each 
conference were given the #1-3 seeds based on their regular-season records. 
The two fourth-placed wild-card teams are awarded the #7 and #8 seeds, 
respectively, also based on their regular-season records. In the NBA playoffs, 
home court advantage is determined strictly by regular-season record, without 
regard to seeding. Before the 2006–07 NBA season, the NBA seeded its teams 
in the same manner as the NHL. Now, the NBA seeds the three division winners 
and the wild-card team with the best record by regular-season record. This 
means that the wild-card with the best record can now get a seed as high 
as #2 (if that team is in the same division as the team with the best record 
in the conference); however, the next four wild-card teams will still be 
limited to the #5 through #8 seeds. This change was made to ensure that 
the two best teams in each conference could not meet until the conference 
final, and also (allegedly) to try and eliminate incentives for a playoff-bound 
team to deliberately lose games at the end of the regular season in order 
to "choose" a higher-seeded team that has won fewer games (and, due to 
the unique home-court rules of the NBA, possibly gain home-court advantage 
for that series). In the NBA, the winner of the #1 vs. #8 series goes on 
to face the winner of the #5 vs. #4 series, while the winner of the #2 
vs. #7 series faces the winner of the #6 vs. #3 series. Notice that the 
winner of the #1 vs. #8 series will usually play against a wild-card team 
in the Conference Semifinals; this is arranged deliberately to "reward" 
the #1 seeded team by giving it the most winnable matchups in the first 
and second rounds. In the National Hockey League (NHL), the first, second, 
and third place teams in each division qualify for the playoffs automatically, 
with the two divisional champions assigned the #1 and #2 seeds. Two additional 
teams, regardless of divisional alignment, also qualify by having the best 
records among the remaining teams in the conference. These teams are referred 
to as the Wild Cards. The division champions play the Wild Cards, while 
the second and third placed teams in each division play each other; therefore 
the bracket is fixed, like the NBA. Before the 2013–14 NHL season, division 
champions within each conference were given the #1-3 seeds based on their 
regular-season records. The two fourth-placed wild-card teams are awarded 
the #7 and #8 seeds, respectively, also based on their regular-season records. 
The division champions (first-third seeds) and the best second place team 
(fourth seed) were given home ice advantage in the opening playoff series, 
in which they face the eighth-seeded through fifth-seeded teams, respectively. 
However, the play-off format differed slightly from that of the NBA. In 
the NHL, the highest winning seed of the first round played the lowest 
winning seed of the first round in the next round of the play-offs. For 
example, if the #1, #4, #6, and #7 seeds win their respective first round 
series then the second round of the play-offs matched the #1 seed (highest) 
versus the #7 seed (lowest) and the #4 seed (2nd highest) versus the #6 
seed (second lowest). Home ice advantage in each NHL playoff series prior 
to the Stanley Cup Finals was granted by superior seed, even if the "wild 
card" team had a better regular season record. For the Finals, the team 
with the better record will receive home ice advantage. Major League Soccer 
(MLS), the top level of soccer (football) in both countries, used a wild 
card format starting in its 2011 playoffs. The top three teams from each 
of its two conferences automatically qualified for the conference semifinals, 
while the four remaining teams with the highest point totals in league 
play, without regard to conference, earned "wild cards" into the playoffs. 
The wild card matches were single games, with the #7 seed hosting the #10 
seed and the #8 seed hosting the #9 seed. The lowest surviving seed then 
played the Supporters' Shield winner (i.e., the team with the highest point 
total), while the other surviving wild card played the top seed in the 
other conference. The "wild card" format was revamped for the 2012 season. 
Since 2015, the top six teams from each conference qualify for the playoffs, 
with the #1 & #2 seeds in each conference automatically qualifying for 
the conference semifinals, and seeds #3-6 in each conference being wild 
cards. The lowest-seeded winner (played between the #4 & #5, and #3 & #6 
seeds) in each conference plays the #1 seed, and the next-lowest playing 
the #2 seed in the conference semifinals.[1] In professional tennis tournaments, 
a wild card refers to a tournament entry awarded to a player at the discretion 
of the organizers. All ATP and WTA tournaments have a few spots set aside 
for wild cards in both the main draw, and the qualifying draw, for players 
who otherwise would not have made either of these draws with their professional 
ranking. They are usually awarded to players from the home and/or sponsoring 
country (sometimes after a tournament where the winner is awarded the wild 
card), promising young players, players that are likely to draw a large 
crowd, have won the tournament earlier or players who were once ranked 
higher and are attempting a comeback (for instance, following a long-term 
injury). High ranked players can also ask for a wild card if they want 
to enter a non-mandatory tournament after the normal entry deadline, for 
example because they lost early in another tournament. This means a wild 
card player sometimes becomes the top seed. Some Grand Slam tournaments 
swap wild cards, like Australian Open, French Open and US Open.[1] In motorcycle 
racing the term 'wild card' is used for competitors only involved in individual 
rounds of a championship, usually their local round. Local riders taking 
advantage of their local knowledge (often having raced that circuit on 
that bike before) and affording to take risks without planning for a championship, 
often upset established runners. Makoto Tamada and Shaky Byrne have both 
taken double victories in Superbike World Championship rounds in their 
home countries. The most famous wild card entry perhaps was the late Daijiro 
Kato with finishing 3rd at his first appearance in 1996 and then winning 
the Japanese 250cc Grand Prix back to back in 1997 and 1998 on his way 
to become the most successful 250cc World Champion of all time in 2001. 
Grand Prix motorcycle racing[2][better source needed] Each Grand Prix host 
Federation (FMNR) may nominate 3 wild card entries for the Moto3 and Moto2 
classes in their own Grand Prix only. The MSMA (Motorcycle Sport Manufacturers’ 
Association) may, at each event, nominate 1 wild card entry for the Moto2 
and MotoGP classes. The FIM may, at each event, nominate 2 wild card entries 
for the Moto3 and Moto2 classes and FIM/DORNA may, at each event, nominate 
1 wild card entry for the MotoGP class. Superbike World Championship[3][better source needed] 
Each Event host Federation (FMNR) may nominate 4 wild card entries for 
the Superbike class and 2 wild card entries for the Supersport and Superstock 
classes, in their own event only. The FIM may nominate 2 wild card entries 
for the Superbike class. Motorcycle Speedway In Motorcycle Speedway, wild 
cards compete in the Speedway Grand Prix events in which there is 1 wild 
card per competition (until 2005 there were 2 per Grand Prix). As of 2014[update] 
six wild cards have won a Grand Prix: Mark Loram in 1999, Martin Dugard 
in 2000, Hans Andersen in 2006 (later that year he replaced a permanent 
rider and went on to win another GP), Michael Jepsen Jensen in 2012, Adrian 
Miedziński in 2013 and Bartosz Zmarzlik in 2014. Wild Card entries are 
not unknown in auto racing either, although the Concorde Agreement in modern-day 
Formula One requires all teams to participate in every event. John Love 
came close to winning the 1967 South African Grand Prix in a wild card 
type situation, long before the term had been coined. Although the term 
is rarely used in NASCAR, the concept of a road course ringer is similar. 
Before the late-1990s, NEXTEL Cup and Busch Series races in the West and 
Northeast respectively would have several drivers from the Winston West 
and Busch North series, as the series regulations were very similar, and 
until the mid-2000s, ARCA drivers would usually attempt Cup races in the 
Midwest and at restrictor-plate races. During the period of the mid-1980s 
until 2004, individual NASCAR races utilized the "Promoter's Option" (also 
known as Provisionals) to allow a top driver/team that did not qualify 
for the race, the opportunity for a "wild card" type starting position 
at the end of the grid. This allowed track owners to advertise and guarantee 
to fans that the most popular drivers would participate in the race (pleasing 
fans in attendance, and preventing no-shows) even if the driver had an 
unfortunate mishap (e.g., blown engine) or crash during time trials. Starting 
in 2005, only the Former Champion's Provisional remains. During the NASCAR 
Sprint All-Star Race (a non-points exhibition event) one driver who fails 
to qualify for the race is awarded a wild card spot via "Fans Choice" vote. 
In 2008, Kasey Kahne, was selected as a wild card via fan vote, and went 
on to win the race. From 2011 to 2013, NASCAR's top-level Sprint Cup Series 
used "wild cards" in a different context, namely that of qualifying for 
the season-ending Chase for the Sprint Cup. In previous seasons, the top 
12 drivers in championship points after the first 26 races of the season 
automatically qualified for the Chase, with their points reset to a point 
unreachable by any other driver. Under the 2011–2013 system, only the top 
10 drivers automatically qualified. The other two Chase qualifiers were 
the two drivers ranked from 11th through 20th after 26 races with the most 
race wins, with tiebreakers used as necessary to restrict the number of 
"wild cards" to two. Major changes to the Chase format that took effect 
in 2014, most notably determining the newly expanded Chase field of 16 
mainly by race wins, eliminated this type of "wild card". Although the 
term "wild card" is not generally used in this context outside North America, 
a few competitions effectively employ such a system to determine one or 
more places in a future phase of a competition. In the Olympics, several 
sport governing bodies award wild cards to nations in order to further 
promote their sport. Sports governing bodies will either make selections 
or hold a tournament to determine the wild cards. One such notable wild 
card selection was Equatorial Guinea swimmer Eric Moussambani, who finished 
last in the 100m meter event in the 2000 Summer Olympics. The Euroleague, 
a Europe-wide competition for elite basketball clubs, once had one "wild 
card" advancing from its first phase, officially the Regular Season, to 
its second, called the Top 16. The rule was in place through the 2007–08 
season. At that time, the competition began each year with 24 clubs, divided 
into three groups. (Today, the competition starts with a preliminary stage 
of 16 teams playing down to two survivors, who join 22 other teams in the 
Regular Season.) Then as now, the groups played a double round-robin for 
the Regular Season, with eight clubs eliminated and the remaining clubs 
advancing to the Top 16. Under the rules in place through 2007–08, the 
top five clubs in each group automatically advanced. The final "wild card" 
spot in the Top 16 went to the sixth-place club with the best overall record, 
with three potential tiebreaking steps. A coin toss is not indicated as 
a possible step. Starting in 2008–09, the "wild card" was abolished when 
the Regular Season was reorganized into four groups with 6 teams apiece. 
Now, the top four teams in each group advance to the Top 16. No change 
to the tiebreakers was made. The world championship for basketball, the 
FIBA Basketball World Cup, invites four wild cards to complete its 24-team 
field. Teams have to participate in qualifying for the World Cup, have 
to apply to be one, and FIBA is not allowed more than three teams from 
the same continent in order to be selected. This setup began in 2006, where 
Italy, Puerto Rico, Serbia and Montenegro, and Turkey were selected by 
FIBA; Turkey made the best performance, reaching the quarterfinals. In 
2010, FIBA selected Germany, Lithuania, Lebanon, and Russia as the wild 
cards, with Lithuania finishing third, and Russia making it to the quarterfinals. 
For the 2014 FIBA Basketball World Cup, FIBA selected Brazil, Finland, 
Greece, and Turkey; 2014 will be the last time FIBA will select wild cards, 
as the 2019 FIBA Basketball World Cup would no longer have wild cards when 
it expands to 32 teams. Rugby union's analogue to the Euroleague is the 
European Rugby Champions Cup, which replaced the previous top-level club 
competition, the Heineken Cup, starting with the 2014–15 season. The Champions 
Cup maintains a system originally created for the Heineken Cup in which 
some "wild card" teams advance to the competition's knockout stages. Also 
starting in 2014–15, the organiser of the Champions Cup, European Professional 
Club Rugby, introduced this type of "wild card" to the second-level European 
Rugby Challenge Cup. During the last five seasons of the Heineken Cup (2009–10 
to 2013–14), another "wild card" system allowed teams to parachute into 
the original European Challenge Cup, which has now been replaced by the 
current Challenge Cup. This was scrapped with the creation of the current 
Challenge Cup. Both the Champions Cup and current Challenge Cup involve 
20 clubs (compared to 24 in the Heineken Cup and 20 in the original Challenge 
Cup), divided into pools of four clubs with each club playing a double 
round-robin within its pool. In both competitions, eight clubs advance 
to the knockout stages. The top club in each pool advances; the three "wild 
card" places are filled by the second-place clubs with the best overall 
records. For the Champions Cup, the number of wild cards increased by one 
from the Heineken Cup era; both versions of the Challenge Cup had three 
wild cards, but the original version filled them in an entirely different 
manner. In the final years of the Heineken Cup, starting in 2009–10 and 
ending with the 2014 reorganisation of European club rugby, the three second-place 
teams with the next-best records after those that advanced to the Heineken 
Cup knockout stage parachuted into the Challenge Cup. The tiebreaking procedure 
used to determine overall seeding, which was devised in the Heineken Cup 
era and carried over intact into the current era, is almost as elaborate 
as that of the NFL, with a total of seven steps (a coin flip is the last). 
Prior to 2009–10, the original Challenge Cup also had "wild card" teams 
entering its knockout stages. The top club in each pool advanced to the 
knockout stage, along with the three second-place teams with the best records, 
using the same tiebreaking procedure as the Heineken Cup. Starting in 2009–10, 
only the winner of each pool entered the knockout stage, to be joined by 
the teams parachuting in from the Heineken Cup. As noted above, with the 
creation of the new Challenge Cup, that competition abandoned this system 
in favour of the system used in the Champions Cup. The Super Rugby competition, 
involving regional franchises from Australia, New Zealand, and South Africa, 
adopted a new playoff system with "wild cards" when it expanded to 15 teams 
in 2011. In its previous incarnations as Super 12 and Super 14 (each number 
reflecting the number of teams in the competition), it used a Shaughnessy 
playoff system in which the top four teams advanced to a knockout stage. 
The expansion to 15 teams led to major changes in the competition format. 
Through the 2015 season, the competition was divided into three conferences 
of five teams each, with every conference consisting solely of teams from 
one of the participating countries. At the end of the regular season, the 
winners of each conference received playoff berths. These teams were joined 
by three "wild cards", specifically the three non-winners with the most 
competition points without regard to conference. (Tiebreakers were employed 
as necessary.) With the expansion of Super Rugby to 18 teams in 2016, featuring 
a permanent sixth franchise for South Africa and new teams based in Argentina 
and Japan, the competition format was changed again. The competition is 
now divided into the Australasian Group, including all Australian and New 
Zealand teams, and the African Group, consisting of the South African teams 
plus the Argentine and Japanese franchises. In turn, the Australasian Group 
is divided into Australia and New Zealand Conferences, and the African 
Group is split into Africa 1 and Africa 2 Conferences. As in the 2011–15 
system, the conference winners will receive playoff berths. The number 
of wild cards will increase to four, with the three top non-winners from 
the Australasian Group and the top non-winner from the African Group, again 
based on competition points, earning those spots. In the Philippine Basketball 
Association, the playoffs are done after an elimination (in 2005-06, a 
classification) round where the top two teams with the best records are 
given semi-final byes, the next 3 are given quarterfinal byes, the next 
4 are given entry to the wildcard phase, and the tenth team is eliminated. 
The winner of the wild card playoffs, varying in format from a round-robin, 
a single-elimination or sudden death, usually meets the strongest quarterfinalist 
(the 3rd seed). The wild card winner's next opponent for the quarterfinals 
rested while the wild card phase was ongoing so the chance of advancing 
to the semi-finals (in which a team rested longer) is slim. The only wild 
card champion are the 7th-seeded Barangay Ginebra Kings in the 2004 PBA 
Fiesta Conference after 7 years of championship drought they made an epic 
run all the way to the throne, in which the top 2 teams were given semifinal 
byes while the bottom eight went through a knock-out wild card tournament. 
Since the addition of the quarterfinal bye, no wild card has entered the 
Finals, although the Air21 Express won the third-place trophy at the 2005-06 
PBA Fiesta Conference. The wild card set up was no longer used when the 
league reverted to the 3-conference format starting from the 2010–11 PBA 
season. For both the junior and senior Grand Prix of Figure Skating Final 
(which starting in the 2008–2009 figure skating season will be merged into 
a single two-division event), the hosting federation may issue a wild card 
invitation to one of their own skaters should no skater from the host country 
qualify for the event through the Grand Prix circuit. Use of the wild card 
has not been common; however, it was used at the 2007–2008 Junior Grand 
Prix Final by the Polish federation. The same rationale exists in international 
association football, specifically FIFA World Cup qualifying stages. Typically 
in FIFA World Cup qualifying stages in Europe, for example, 2nd placed 
teams are all ranked by number of points. The team with the most points 
is guaranteed automatic qualification to the FIFA World Cup. The team with 
the least points is eliminated (points from victories against the last-placed 
team in each country's respective group being deducted), while teams in 
between generally play a 2-game playoff to determine qualification. In 
the All-Ireland Senior Football Championship, the premier competition in 
Gaelic football, each of the thirty-two counties in Ireland as well as 
London and New York play in their respective Provincial Championships through 
a knock-out cup competition format without seeds. The winners of each of 
the four Provincial Championships earn one of eight places in the All-Ireland 
Quarter Finals. The thirty teams that fail to win their respective Provincial 
Championships receive a second opportunity to reach the All-Ireland Series 
via the All Ireland Qualifiers (also known as the 'back door', similar 
to a Wild Card). In road cycling (teams), a wild card refers to an invitation 
to a race which a particular team would not normally be able to enter. 
Usually used for top division (currently UCI World Tour) races where the 
organization want more teams, lower league teams will be invited. It is 
very common to offer a wild card for teams from the same country to help 
local sport and to boost national pride. For example, for the 100th "Tour 
de France" in 2013, the organisers (the Amaury Sport Organisation) awarded 
three wild cards to French teams: Cofidis, Sojasun and Team Europcar, all 
of which were UCI Professional Continental teams at the time and therefore 
not automatically invited, unlike the UCI ProTeams which made up the vast 
majority of the entry list. Teams can apply for a wild card. In January 
2015, Team MTN-Qhubeka from South Africa accepted an invitation to participate 
in the 2015 edition of "Tour de France". MTN-Qhubeka was the first African 
team to receive a wild card entry into the event to be held from 4 to 26 
