In baseball, a wild pitch (abbreviated WP) is charged against a pitcher 
when his pitch is too high, too short, or too wide of home plate for the 
catcher to control with ordinary effort, thereby allowing a baserunner, 
perhaps even the batter-runner on an uncaught third strike, to advance. 
A wild pitch usually passes the catcher behind home plate, often allowing 
runners on base an easy chance to advance while the catcher chases the 
ball down. Sometimes the catcher may block a pitch, and the ball may be 
nearby, but the catcher has trouble finding the ball, allowing runners 
to advance. A closely related statistic is the passed ball. As with many 
baseball statistics, whether a pitch that gets away from a catcher is counted 
as a wild pitch or a passed ball is at the discretion of the official scorer. 
The benefit of the doubt is usually given to the catcher if there is uncertainty; 
therefore, most of these situations are scored as wild pitches. If the 
pitch was so low as to touch the ground, or so high that the catcher has 
to jump to get to it, or so wide that the catcher has to lunge for it, 
it is usually then considered a wild pitch and not a passed ball. Because 
the pitcher and catcher handle the ball much more than other fielders, 
certain misplays on pitched balls are defined in Rule 10.13 as wild pitches 
and passed balls. No error shall be charged when a wild pitch or passed 
ball is scored. A wild pitch may only be scored if one or more runners 
advance. If the bases are empty, or the catcher retrieves the ball quickly 
and the runner(s) are unable to advance, a wild pitch is not charged. A 
scored run due to a wild pitch is recorded as an earned run. A runner who 
advances on a wild pitch is not credited with a stolen base unless he breaks 
before the pitcher begins his delivery. Nolan Ryan is the modern-era leader 
in the category, throwing 277 wild pitches over his 27 years in Major League 
Baseball. He also led his league in the category in six different seasons. 
However, the all-time record belongs to Tony Mullane, who threw 343 in 
the early years of the game from 1881 to 1894. After Ryan's 277, the next 
pitcher on the list is Mickey Welch 274, followed by Tim Keefe's 233. Bill 
Stemmyer still holds the single-season record, throwing 63 wild pitches 
in 1886. Since 1900, however, the highest total in a season has been 30 
(by Red Ames in 1905). The modern record in a single game is 6, held by 
three different pitchers. R.A. Dickey, Phil Niekro, Walter Johnson, and 
Kevin Gregg all hold the modern-era single inning wild pitch record with 
four. Rick Ankiel, however, has produced five wild pitches in the 3rd inning 
of the 2000 NLDS. Bert Cunningham of the Players League (Considered a major 
league) in 1890 also threw five in an inning. The current active leader 
(as of July 22, 2014) is A.J. Burnett, with 152 wild pitches. The only 
other active pitchers with 100+ wild pitches are Félix Hernández with 111 
