Wilkes-Barre (/ˈwɪlksˌbɛər/ or /-bɛəri/) is a city in the Commonwealth 
of Pennsylvania and the county seat of Luzerne County. It is one of the 
principal cities in the Scranton–Wilkes-Barre–Hazleton, PA Metropolitan 
Statistical Area. Located at the center of the Wyoming Valley, it is second 
in size only to the nearby city of Scranton. The Scranton–Wilkes-Barre–Hazleton, 
PA Metropolitan Statistical Area had a population of 563,631 as of the 
2010 Census, making it the fourth-largest metro/statistical area in the 
state of Pennsylvania. Wilkes-Barre and the surrounding Wyoming Valley 
are framed by the Pocono Mountains to the east, the Endless Mountains to 
the west, and the Lehigh Valley to the south. The Susquehanna River flows 
through the center of the valley and defines the northwestern border of 
the city. Wilkes-Barre was founded in 1769 and formally incorporated in 
1806. The city grew rapidly in the 19th century after the discovery of 
nearby coal reserves and the arrival of hundreds of thousands of immigrants 
who provided a labor force for the local mines. The coal mining fueled 
industrialization in the city, which reached the height of its prosperity 
in the first half of the 20th century. Its population peaked at more than 
86,000. However, Following World War II the city's economy declined due 
to the collapse of industry. The Knox Mine disaster accelerated this trend 
after large portions of the area's coal mines were flooded. Today the city 
has a population of 41,498, making it the 13th-largest city in Pennsylvania. 
In the early 18th century, the Wyoming Valley had been long inhabited by 
the Shawanese and Delaware Indian (Lenape) tribes. By 1769, a group led 
by John Durkee were the first recorded Europeans to reach the area. They 
established a frontier settlement named Wilkes-Barre after John Wilkes 
and Isaac Barré, two British members of Parliament who supported colonial 
America. The initial settlers were aligned with colonial Connecticut, which 
had a claim on the land that rivaled Pennsylvania's. Armed men loyal to 
Pennsylvania twice attempted to evict the residents of Wilkes-Barre in 
what came to be known as the Yankee-Pennamite Wars. After the American 
Revolution, the conflict was resolved between the states, and Connecticut 
gave up its claim. The settlers retained title to their lands but transferred 
their allegiance to Pennsylvania. In 1797, several decades after the city's 
founding, Louis Philippe, later the King of France from 1830 to 1840, stayed 
in Wilkes-Barre while traveling to the French Asylum settlement.[4] Wilkes-Barre's 
population exploded due to the discovery of anthracite coal in the 19th 
century; the economic boom resulted in the city being nicknamed "The Diamond 
City". Hundreds of thousands of immigrants flocked to the city, seeking 
jobs in the numerous mines and collieries that sprang up. New industries 
were established and the Vulcan Iron Works was a well-known manufacturer 
of railway locomotives from 1849 to 1954. Railroads were being constructed 
across the state and country. During Wilkes-Barre's reign as an industrial 
and economic force in America, a number of major companies and franchises 
became based in the city, such as Woolworth's, Sterling Hotels, Planter's 
Peanuts, Miner's Bank, Bell Telephone, HBO, Luzerne National Bank, and 
Stegmaier. In addition, the demolished Old Fell House on Northampton St 
is believed to be the first place in the entire world where anthracite 
was burned for heat.[5] It is said that Babe Ruth hit one of the longest 
home runs in history in Wilkes-Barre early in the 20th century. This statement 
is quoted from the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre RailRiders News page: On October 
12, 1926, Babe Ruth visited Wilkes-Barre's Artillery Park to play in an 
exhibition game between Hughestown and Larksville. Suiting up for Hughestown, 
the Yankee slugger challenged Larksville's hurler Ernie Corkran to throw 
him his "best stuff"—a fastball right down the heart of the plate. Corkran 
obliged and Ruth crushed the pitch into deep right field. When the ball 
cleared the fence, a good 400 feet away from home plate, it was still rising. 
It finally landed in Kirby Park on the far side of a high school running 
track. Ruth himself was so impressed by the feat that he asked for his 
homer to be measured. Originally estimated at 650 feet, the prodigious 
blast is considered to be the longest home run in baseball's storied history.[6] 
Wilkes-Barre is the birthplace of the Planters Peanuts Company, which was 
founded in 1906 by Italian immigrants Amedeo Obici and partner Mario Peruzzi. 
The coal industry survived several disasters, including an explosion at 
the Baltimore Colliery in 1919 that killed 92 miners. It could not survive 
the gradual switch in the country to other energy sources. Most coal operations 
left Wilkes-Barre by the end of World War II. The 1959 Knox Mine Disaster, 
resulting in the flooding of numerous mines, marked the end of King Coal's 
heyday. Industrial restructuring also caused the city to lose jobs and 
go into a decades-long decline. It suffered extensive damage from flooding 
during Hurricane Agnes in 1972. In November 1972, 365 subscribers of Service 
Electric Cable were the first to receive HBO's service, making Wilkes-Barre 
the birthplace of modern cable TV programming.[citation needed] Manufacturing 
and retail remained Wilkes-Barre's strongest industries, but the city's 
economy took a major blow from Tropical Storm Agnes in 1972. The storm 
pushed the Susquehanna River to a height of nearly 41 feet (12 m), four 
feet above the city's levees, flooding downtown with nine feet of water. 
A total of 128 deaths were attributed to the storm, the majority of drowning 
deaths by persons trapped in their cars; almost 400,000 homes and businesses 
were destroyed; 220,000 Pennsylvanians were left homeless (as were hundreds 
of thousands in other areas). Damages were estimated to be $2.1 billion 
in PA alone. President Richard Nixon sent aid to the area, after flying 
over in his helicopter on his way to his Camp David, Maryland retreat, 
on June 24, 1972.[7][8] Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, Wilkes-Barre attempted 
to repair the damage from Agnes by building a levee system that rises 41 
feet. It has successfully resisted less threatening floods of 1996, 2004, 
and 2006. The Army Corps of Engineers has praised the quality of the levees. 
In 2006 the city made the front page of national newspapers when 200,000 
residents were told to evacuate in the wake of flooding that was forecast 
to reach levels near that of 1972. Fortunately it fell short of predictions. 
In late August 2011, Hurricane Irene off the New Jersey coast caused the 
Susquehanna River to rise to flood stage but was no cause for alarm for 
the city. However, from September 6 to September 8, heavy rains from the 
inland remnants of Tropical Storm Lee and Hurricane Katia offshore funneled 
heavy rain over the Wyoming Valley and into the Susquehanna River watershed. 
The Susquehanna swelled to record levels across the state. In Wilkes-Barre 
it crested on September 9 at an all-time record of 42.66 feet (13.00 m),[9] 
nearly two feet higher than water levels reached in 1972's Hurricane Agnes. 
The levees protected Wilkes-Barre, but nearby boroughs that did not have 
levees, such as West Pittston, Plymouth, and parts of Plains Township, 
were affected by extreme flooding and the subsequent water damage. On June 
9, 2005, Mayor Thomas M. Leighton unveiled his I believe... campaign for 
Wilkes-Barre, which was intended to boost the city's spirits. Construction 
began on a planned downtown theatre complex which had a grand opening on 
June 30, 2006. Renovation of the landmark Hotel Sterling was being pursued 
by CityVest, a nonprofit developer. The expansion of Wilkes University 
and King's College took place.[when?] Also, the canopy and matching street 
lights in Public Square and across downtown were removed; the replacements 
are new green lampposts. The City of Wilkes-Barre celebrated its 200th 
anniversary in 2006. Several events, including a Beach Boys concert, were 
planned but canceled due to extremely heavy rains. Most of the city's population 
was ordered to evacuate on June 28, 2006. The Bicentennial celebration 
was postponed to Labor Day weekend, September 3, 2006, and was attended 
by Pennsylvania Governor Ed Rendell and the Beach Boys. The Riverfront 
revitalization project (River Common), broke ground in 2007 and was completed 
in early 2010. It has made the riverfront accessible to the public. The 
area also has a new amphitheater for live performances and improved access 
through ramps and sidewalks. Fountains and color-changing lights have been 
added underneath two bridges which carry pedestrian traffic across the 
normally-open levee breachings. The project stretches approximately four 
blocks from the Luzerne County Courthouse to the intersection of S. River 
Street and W. South Street. The River Common has since hosted concerts 
and charity events. Users have complained of insufficient parking close 
to the river. Since completion of the River Common, additional improvements 
to city infrastructure have been progressing. New crosswalks have been 
installed downtown, including signage emphasizing that pedestrians have 
the right-of-way. The completion of the James F. Conahan Intermodal Transportation 
Facility has added parking and relocated Luzerne County buses from their 
former Public Square staging sites. This has reduced traffic congestion 
around the square. Private carrier Martz offers coach bus service from 
the terminal as well.[10] The widening and realignment of Coal Street, 
a major road connecting Wilkes-Barre city with Wilkes-Barre Township, was 
completed in 2012. The new Coal Street provides four lanes over the original 
two lanes, making travel between the highly commercial Wilkes-Barre Township 
and the city much easier. The 2012 realignment also provides travelers 
with a spectacular view of the city center when traveling west into Wilkes-Barre 
City. Executive The city is headed by a mayor, elected to a four-year term. 
Anthony George, the current mayor, is a Democrat and has been in office 
since 2016. George served as a Wilkes-Barre Police officer, rising to command 
the Department as Chief. Legislative The legislative branch of Wilkes-Barre 
is the City Council, comprising five members who are elected by single-member 
district to four-year terms. Current members of Council are Bill Barrett; 
Mike Belusko; Tony Brooks; Beth Gilbert; and Michael Merritt. Barrett is 
also a former Wilkes-Barre City Police chief. Audit & Control The office 
of Audit and Control is the third branch of Wilkes-Barre City government. 
It is headed by the City Controller, elected to a four-year term. Darren 
G. Snyder, the current City Controller, is a Democrat and has been in office 
since 2016. The City Controller has the following powers and duties: Judicial 
The City of Wilkes-Barre is served by two City Attorneys, Timothy Henry 
and Maureen Collins, who advise both the Mayor and City Council. The Luzerne 
County Court of Common Pleas is the state trial court of general jurisdiction 
for Wilkes-Barre. Its probation system is divided into two divisions: adult 
and juvenile. The Court has ten judges: President Judge Thomas Burke; as 
well as Judges David Lupas, William H. Amesbury, Tina Polachek Gartley, 
Lesa Gelb, Richard Hughes III, Fred Pierantoni III, Jennifer Rogers, Joseph 
Sklarosky, Jr., and Michael Vough. Luzerne County senior judges are Hugh 
F. Mundy, and former President judges Joseph Augello, Chester Muroski, 
and Patrick Toole. The U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Middle District of 
Pennsylvania sits at the Max Rosenn United States Courthouse in downtown 
Wilkes-Barre on South Main Street. Bankruptcy Judge John J. Thomas is son 
of Thomas C. Thomas, a prominent produce dealer who has a major terminal 
that is part of the city's architecture.[citation needed] Wilkes-Barre 
has the 4th-largest downtown workforce in the state of Pennsylvania.[citation 
needed] Family Median Income in Wilkes-Barre is $44,430, compared to the 
national average of $64,585. Unemployment in June 2014 was 7%.[11] 49% 
of jobs were either in the sales, office, administrative support or production, 
transportation, material moving sectors. In 2009 31.9% of residents lived 
below the poverty line, nearly double the Pennsylvania average of 16.4%.[12] 
Large employers in the city include GUARD Insurance Group, and Lord & Taylor. 
Interstate 81 passes north–south near Wilkes-Barre, and the city is also 
located near the Northeast Extension of the Pennsylvania Turnpike and is 
about 10 miles (16 km) north of Interstate 80. Public transportation is 
provided by the Luzerne County Transportation Authority. In addition to 
servicing the main arteries of the city, it provides transportation for 
the northern half of the county, as well as a connecting bus to Scranton 
via an interchange at Pittston with County of Lackawanna Transit System 
(COLTS), the public transit authority of Lackawanna County. The city was 
at one time served by the Lehigh Valley Railroad, Central Railroad of New 
Jersey, the Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad (later Erie Lackawanna 
Railway), Delaware and Hudson Railway, the Pennsylvania Railroad, the Wilkes-Barre 
and Eastern Railroad, and the Lackawanna and Wyoming Valley Railroad (known 
as the Laurel Line). The Wilkes-Barre Traction Company formed a streetcar 
line from Georgetown to Nanticoke and over the river into Plymouth ceasing 
operations in the mid-1940s. At present, the Canadian Pacific Railway (successor 
to the Delaware and Hudson) and the Luzerne and Susquehanna Railroad (designated-operator 
of a county-owned shortline) provide freight service within the city. Five 
international airlines fly from the Wilkes-Barre/Scranton International 
Airport in nearby Pittston Township. Smaller, private planes may also use 
the Wilkes-Barre Wyoming Valley Airport in Forty Fort. According to the 
United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 7.2 square miles 
(19 km2), of which 6.8 square miles (18 km2) is land and 0.3 square miles 
(0.78 km2), or 4.60%, is water. While the Susquehanna River has a wide 
floodplain that has necessitated the construction of floodwalls to protect 
a large percentage of the city, the areas away from the river increase 
in elevation approaching Wilkes-Barre Mountain. The elevation of the downtown 
is about 550 feet (170 m) above sea level. Wilkes-Barre houses several 
neighborhoods, which are: Central City The area now referred to as "Downtown", 
between South and North Streets, and bordered by River Street and Wilkes-Barre 
Boulevard to the West and East respectively, is the original foundation 
of Wilkes-Barre, the 16 blocks claimed by the Connecticut settlers who 
founded the city. Throughout the city's history, the area has remained 
a hub for all of Luzerne County. During the city's boom, this small area 
was home to the headquarters of more than 100 national corporations. Today, 
it still houses the NEPA Headquarters for Verizon, Citizen's Bank, Blue 
Cross, PNC Bank, Luzerne National Bank, Guard Insurance, and a number of 
other companies. An estimated 40,000 people live and/or work in Downtown 
Wilkes-Barre every day. North End This is the area northeast of Downtown. 
It comprises a number of urban and suburban communities, and is renowned 
for its interesting and beautiful architecture. Parsons This is a quiet 
part of town with a suburban atmosphere. It includes two city parks, a 
golf course, and a number of factories. Miners' Mills Named after an early 
prominent local family, it is the last neighborhood on the northeastern 
border of the city. South Wilkes-Barre This is the area directly southwest 
of Downtown. Home to the national headquarters of Planter's Peanuts and 
the Bell Telephone Company in the 20th Century. The tallest church in Luzerne 
County, St. Nicholas Roman Catholic Church, dominates the south end skyline 
at nearly 200'. East End This is the area directly east of Downtown. East 
End, along with Heights and Mayflower, are fairly new areas compared to 
the rest of the city, having only been developed in the 20th Century. Old 
pictures of the Stegmaier Building (which is the oldest highrise in Wilkes-Barre 
and the last one on Downtown's eastern border) show that everything east 
of Downtown was forests and coal mines. Heights This is the area southeast 
of Downtown centered between East End and Mayflower. Mayflower This area 
is located south of Downtown. Once, a wealthy area home to many beautiful 
mansions owned by various "big wigs", the area is now a more affordable 
neighborhood, also housing the OKT, Lincoln Plaza, and Park Avenue residential 
housing communities. It can be argued that from the high streets of Mayflower, 
the best view of the downtown skyline can be seen. Rolling Mill Hill This 
is the area located in the southwestern area of the city. Goose Island 
This is the area located in the southwestern area of the city between Rolling 
Mill Hill and South Wilkes-Barre. Iron Triangle This is the area just southwest 
of Downtown. Other Neighborhoods and Sub-neighborhoods There are other 
smaller neighborhoods and sub-neighborhoods, such as Brookside, Upper Miners' 
Mills, Lower Miners' Mills, and Barney Farms to name a few. Wilkes-Barre 
is by no means a city characterized by tall buildings, but it has a large 
skyline for a city of its population and size, and it is home to more than 
30 high rise buildings (Daniel J. Flood Tower is in Kingston and the VA 
Medical Center is in Plains Township, but they are part of the Wilkes-Barre 
skyline, being close enough to blend in), the tallest of which (from tallest 
to shortest) are as follows. Recently Wilkes Barre has had a trend of demolishing 
its historic buildings and replacing them with parking lots.[13] Wilkes-Barre 
has a humid continental climate (Köppen climate classification Dfa/Dfb) 
with four distinct seasons. Winters are cold with a January average of 
25.8 °F (−3.4 °C).[15] The surrounding mountains have an influence on the 
climate on both precipitation and temperatures, leading to wide variations 
within a short distance.[16] On average, temperatures below 0 °F (−17.8 °C) 
are infrequent, occurring 3 days per year and there are 36 days where the 
maximum temperature remains below 32 °F (0.0 °C).[16] The average annual 
snowfall is 46.2 inches (117 cm) during the winter in which severe snowstorms 
are rare.[16] However, when snowstorms do occur, they can disrupt normal 
routines for several days.[16] Summers are warm with a July average of 
71.4 °F (21.9 °C).[15] In an average summer, temperatures exceeding 90 °F 
(32.2 °C) occur on 9 days and can occasionally exceed 100 °F (37.8 °C).[17] 
Spring and fall are unpredictable with temperatures ranging from cold to 
warm although they are usually mild. On average, Wilkes-Barre receives 
38.2 inches (970 mm) of precipitation each year, which is relatively evenly 
distributed throughout the year though the summer months receive more precipitation.[17] 
Extreme temperatures range from −21 °F (−29.4 °C) on January 21, 1994, 
to 103 °F (39.4 °C) on July 9, 1936.[17] Wilkes-Barre averages 2303 hours 
of sunshine per year, ranging from a low of 96 hours in December (or 33% 
of possible sunshine) to 286 hours in July (or 62% of possible sunshine).[18] 
The city's population has been in constant decline since the 1930s and 
is today less than half the size it was in 1940 and around two-thirds the 
size it was in 1970. As of the 2010 census, the city was 79.2% White, 10.9% 
Black or African American, 0.3% Native American, 1.4% Asian, and 2.9% were 
two or more races. Of the population 11.3% were of Hispanic or Latino ancestry.[23] 
The Hispanic population was just 1.58% of the population as of the 2000 
census. As of the census of 2000, there were 43,123 people, 17,961 households, 
and 9,878 families residing in the city. The population density was 6,296.3 
people per square mile (2,430.6/km2). There were 20,294 housing units at 
an average density of 2,963.1 per square mile (1,143.9/km2). The racial 
makeup of the city was 92.30% White, 5.09% African American, 0.11% Native 
American, 0.79% Asian, 0.03% Pacific Islander, 0.53% from other races, 
and 1.15% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.58% 
of the population. The largest ethnic groups in Wilkes Barre as of recent 
estimates are: The average household size was 2.20, and the average family 
size was 2.96. In the city the population was spread out, with 19.9% under 
the age of 18, 12.6% from 18 to 24, 26.1% from 25 to 44, 20.8% from 45 
to 64, and 20.6% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 
39 years. For every 100 females, there were 93.2 males. For every 100 females 
age 18 and over, there were 90.7 males. The local accent of American English 
is Northeast Pennsylvania English. Wilkes-Barre has four high schools (James 
M. Coughlin High School, G.A.R. (Grand Army of the Republic) Memorial High 
School, Holy Redeemer High School and Elmer L. Meyers High School) and 
six tertiary education institutions (King's College, Wilkes University, 
Misericordia University, Luzerne County Community College, Penn State Wilkes-Barre, 
and The Commonwealth Medical College). Wilkes-Barre has a Downtown Riverfront 
Park system that contains 91 acres of open space in Wilkes-Barre, Kingston, 
and Edwardsville.[24] Kirby Park is a public park located along the western 
bank of the Susquehanna River. Kirby Park is one of the region's most valued 
recreational resources. Given to the City of Wilkes-Barre by the Kirby 
Family, the park welcomes hundreds of thousands each year. The park is 
the setting for the City of Wilkes-Barre's annual Cherry Blossom Festival, 
held during the last weekend of April and the city's Old Fashioned 4 July 
Celebration. Its amenities include tennis courts, a fitness trail, pond, 
walking paths, running track, softball fields, parking area, volleyball 
courts, pavilions and more.[25] Nesbitt Park is a small public park located 
across Market Street from Kirby Park on the west side of the Susquehanna 
River. It has walking paths and areas for picnicking. The River Common 
is located along the eastern bank of the Susquehanna River. The Market 
Street Bridge bisects the park. Its features include a 750-person amphitheater, 
paved walk-ways, gardens, ornamental trees, grand common and seating area, 
fishing pier, and two grand gateways connecting the city to the river. 
The Times Leader and The Citizens' Voice are the two largest daily newspapers 
in Wilkes-Barre. There are several regional television affiliates (WNEP-TV, 
WBRE-TV, WYOU-TV, WVIA-TV, WQMY, and WSWB) although only WBRE-TV is licensed 
to Wilkes-Barre. Wilkes-Barre's radio market is ranked No. 69 by Arbitron's 
ranking system. There are news, adult alternative, and music radio stations 
