William Harridge (October 16, 1883 – April 9, 1971) was an American executive 
in professional baseball whose most significant role was as president of 
the American League (AL) from 1931 to 1959. He was elected to the Baseball 
Hall of Fame by the Veteran's Committee in 1972. Will Harridge was born 
in the Hyde Park neighborhood of Chicago, Illinois. He worked as a railway 
ticket clerk before being hired in 1911 as the personal secretary to Ban 
Johnson, president of baseball's American League. In 1927, Harridge became 
the league secretary. He then became president of the American League in 
1931, held that post until his retirement in 1958, and then was named president 
emeritus. At that point the league office was moved to Boston, and Harridge 
was allowed to keep the Chicago office as well as act as custodian of the 
American League archive correspondence. Harridge faced some criticism for 
his involvement in allowing Arnold Johnson, a business associate of New 
York Yankees owners Dan Topping and Del Webb, to purchase the Philadelphia 
Athletics and move them to Kansas City rather than allow local owners to 
purchase the team and keep it in Philadelphia. He is also criticized by 
some for his then "non-involvement" in turning a blind eye to the control 
that the Yankees had over Johnson and the A's. Harridge often cited a 1932 
incident as his most difficult decision in baseball. During a July 4 game 
between the New York Yankees and Washington Senators, a collision occurred 
at home plate involving Senators outfielder Carl Reynolds and Yankees catcher 
Bill Dickey. Dickey dropped the ball, but chased down Reynolds and punched 
him, resulting in a broken jaw. Though Dickey was a star player with the 
most powerful franchise in baseball, Harridge issued him a $1,000 fine 
and a thirty-day suspension.[1] He is more widely known for a ruling that 
he made in 1951 when dwarf Eddie Gaedel signed a contract with Bill Veeck's 
St. Louis Browns. Gaedel registered one career plate appearance in August 
of that year, earning a walk on four straight pitches. Harridge decided 
that Veeck was making a mockery of baseball and he cancelled Gaedel's contract 
the next day.[1] Harridge died at age 87 in Evanston, Illinois, and is 
interred in Memorial Park in Skokie, Illinois. The American League Championship 
Series trophy is named the William Harridge Trophy in Harridge's honor.[2] 
