William Edward White (1860–1937) was a 19th-century baseball player. He 
played as a substitute in one professional baseball game for the Providence 
Grays of the National League, on June 21, 1879.[1] Work by the Society 
for American Baseball Research (SABR) suggests that he may have been the 
first African-American to play major league baseball, predating the longer 
career of Moses Fleetwood Walker by five years; and Jackie Robinson by 
68 years.[2][3][4][5][6] Very little is known about White, who replaced 
the regular first baseman, Joe Start, after the latter was injured. White 
was a student of Brown University, who played for the college's team. He 
went 1-for-4 and scored a run as Providence won 5–3. It is unknown why 
White did not play for the Grays again; he was replaced in the next game 
by Hall of Famer "Orator Jim" O'Rourke.[7] SABR's research theorizes that 
the William Edward White who took the field that day was the son of a plantation 
owner from Milner, Georgia, Andrew Jackson White, and his black slave, 
Hannah. University records give Milner as the student's birthplace, and 
the only person of his name listed in the 1870 census was a 9-year-old 
mulatto boy who was one of three children living with his mother Hannah 
White. All three of these children are named in A.J. White's 1877 will, 
which described them as the children of his servant Hannah White and stipulates 
that they be educated in the North. If the research by SABR is correct, 
then William Edward White was not only the first black player in the major 
leagues, but also the only former slave to do so.[8][9] Unlike the Walker 
brothers, White passed as white and did not face the virulent racism prevalent 
in the late 19th century. According to 1900 and 1910 census records, White 
(the former Brown student and ballplayer) moved to Chicago and became a 
bookkeeper. He is listed there as having been born in Rhode Island and 
being white. The 1920 census, however, indicates that there was then a 
60-year-old William E. White living in Chicago, whose parents were born 
in Georgia, and whose race was listed as "black." It is not certain that 
