William Drought Cox (1909–1989) was an American businessman and sports 
executive. A Yale University alumnus and wealthy lumber broker, Cox first 
entered the sports world when he headed a group that bought the New York 
Yankees of the third American Football League in 1941. He also served as 
the league's president. After changing the team's name to the New York 
Americans, Cox's first major splash was signing Heisman Trophy winner Tom 
Harmon and complete a backfield tandem with John Kimbrough. Soon afterward, 
Cox was named league president as well. He had ambitious plans for the 
Yankees, but the outbreak of World War II resulted in several players from 
the Yankees and other teams either enlisting or being drafted into the 
military. With several teams' rosters depleted to the point that they could 
not field viable teams, Cox announced the league would shut down for the 
war's duration. As it turned out, it never returned. He also supplied the 
pilings used to reinforce the Panama Canal during the war. In 1943, Cox 
bought the Philadelphia Phillies of Major League Baseball's National League. 
Financially strapped Gerald Nugent had barely survived the 1942 season, 
needing an advance from the league just to go to spring training. Realizing 
there was no way he could operate the team in 1943, he initially planned 
to sell it to Bill Veeck, only to have those plans derailed by Baseball 
Commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis when word got out that Veeck planned 
to stock the team with Negro League stars. Landis pressured National League 
president Ford Frick to take over the franchise. The league sold it to 
Cox a week later. Although long thought to be false based on press accounts 
of the time,[2] evidence has surfaced that Nugent indeed planned to sell 
the Phillies to Veeck, only to have Landis step in and engineer the sale 
to Cox.[3][4] At the age of only 33 at the time, he was the youngest owner 
in the league. At the time Cox took over, the Phillies had been the dregs 
of the National League for a quarter century; they had finished above .500 
only once since 1918, at least in part because the team's owners had been 
unwilling or unable to spend the money necessary to build a winner. Cox, 
however, was not afraid to spend what it took to get the Phillies out of 
the cellar. He significantly increased the team's payroll and devoted significant 
resources to player development (including the farm system) for the first 
time in the history of the franchise. He also hired Bucky Harris, who had 
won two pennants and one World Series with the Washington Senators, as 
manager. However, Cox was a very hands-on owner. He'd played baseball at 
Yale, and still thought of himself as a star athlete; believing the team 
needed to be better conditioned, he hired his high school track coach, 
Harold Bruce, as team trainer. Cox even suited up for workouts, and frequently 
showed up at the clubhouse before and after games. All of this grated on 
Harris, and when he protested against Cox's interference, Cox fired him 
on July 27 at a press conference, without bothering to inform Harris. The 
players threatened to go on strike in protest, but Harris urged them to 
drop those plans after Cox threatened legal action. Despite this, the Phillies 
showed signs of respectability for the first time in years, and they finished 
64-90, a healthy 22-game improvement from 1942, to get out of the cellar 
for the first time in five years. The long-beleaguered Phillies fans appreciated 
what Cox was trying to do, as the Phillies had their best attendance since 
1916. At the time of Harris' firing, the Phillies had already won 38 games, 
just four fewer than they had won in the previous season. More importantly 
in the long run, the farm system had begun developing the players who would 
help lead the Phillies to the 1950 World Series. On July 28, Harris dropped 
a bombshell at his hotel room in Philadelphia: he had evidence that Cox 
was betting on his own team. When Landis got wind of Harris' charges, he 
launched an immediate investigation. Initially, Cox denied any wrongdoing, 
but conceded that some of his business associates bet on the Phillies. 
As the investigation progressed, Cox changed his story and admitted making 
some "sentimental" bets on the Phillies, and he claimed that he didn't 
know it was against the rules. This made no difference to Landis, who suspended 
Cox indefinitely on November 23.[5] Cox immediately resigned as team president, 
but appealed Landis' ruling 11 days later. At the December 4 hearing, Harris 
testified that he'd heard Cox's secretary asking about the odds for a game 
between the Phillies and Brooklyn Dodgers; when Harris asked, "Do you mean 
to tell me Mr. Cox is betting on baseball?" the secretary replied that 
it was common knowledge in the Phillies office. On the basis of this and 
other evidence, Landis ordered that Cox be suspended for life, thus making 
Cox the first non-player to be banned from baseball by Landis; he is the 
last owner to be banned for life as of 2013. In 1960, Cox led entrepreneurs 
in creating the International Soccer League, an annual summer competition 
that would bring professional soccer teams from various nations, as well 
as a team of American-born players, the New York Americans to play against 
each other in New York City. The International Soccer League competition 
lasted for six summers, and would stage matches in other cities during 
its existence.[6] In 1967, Cox and other sportsmen launched the National 
Professional Soccer League in 10 American cities.[7] After a merger with 
the rival United Soccer Association, five of the NPSL teams (the Atlanta 
Chiefs, Baltimore Bays, Oakland Clippers, St. Louis Stars and Toronto Falcons) 
would become part of the North American Soccer League. Cox retired to other 
