William Dole "Spike" Eckert (January 20, 1909 – April 16, 1971) was a lieutenant 
general in the United States Air Force, and later the fourth Commissioner 
of Major League Baseball from 1965 to 1968. William Eckert was born on 
January 20, 1909 in Freeport, Illinois.[1] Eckert, who grew up in Madison, 
Indiana, graduated from the United States Military Academy in June 1930. 
It was there that Eckert earned the nickname "Spike" while playing football. 
He then attended the Air Corps Flying Schools at Brooks and Kelly Fields 
in San Antonio, Texas, graduating in October 1931. In 1938, he was selected 
as one of two officers for advanced education at the Harvard Graduate School 
of Business Administration and graduated with a master's degree in June 
1940. In 1957, at the age of 48, Eckert was commissioned lieutenant general, 
making him the youngest three-star officer in the United States Armed Forces. 
When he retired, he was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal.[1] Just 
before becoming the commissioner of Major League Baseball, Eckert worked 
as a management consultant to the aviation industry. During this period, 
he served on the boards of directors of several corporations. More than 
150 names appeared on the original list of nominees for the commissionership 
following Ford Frick's retirement. The club owners initially were unable 
to decide if the next commissioner should come from the ranks of the game 
(e.g., the president of the American or National Leagues), or elsewhere. 
They finally decided that the new commissioner should have a strong business 
background to deal with the problems that were confronting the game at 
the time. Eckert had not appeared on any lists of prospective candidates 
at first. He only became a serious candidate for the commissionership after 
fellow officer Curtis LeMay gave Major League Baseball a recommendation 
for him. On November 17, 1965, by a unanimous vote of the then-20 major 
league club owners, William Eckert became the fourth Commissioner of Major 
League Baseball. When he became commissioner, Eckert had not seen a game 
in person in over 10 years. He was almost completely unknown to the public, 
leading sportswriters to nickname him "the Unknown Soldier." He incurred 
the public's ire by refusing to cancel games after the assassinations of 
Sen. Robert F. Kennedy and Martin Luther King, Jr., and team owners' disdain 
because he refused to deal forcefully with substantive business issues. 
By 1968, the owners anticipated a players' strike, and had long since lost 
confidence in Eckert's ability to handle the situation. For this reason, 
Eckert was forced to resign at the end of the season, although he still 
had three years on his contract. In spite of his much publicized failures 
and shortcomings, Eckert also developed more effective committee actions, 
streamlined business methods and helped stabilize franchises with bigger 
stadiums and long-term leases. In addition, Eckert worked hard toward promoting 
the game internationally, including a 1966 tour of Japan by the Los Angeles 
Dodgers. Eckert died two years after leaving the commissionership, while 
