William Alfred "Bill" Shea (June 21, 1907 – October 2, 1991) was an American 
lawyer and a name partner of the prominent law firm of Shea & Gould. He 
is probably better known as the founder of the Continental League, which 
was instrumental in bringing National League baseball back to New York 
City with the New York Mets, and for being the namesake of the stadium 
where that team played for 45 years. Shea began undergraduate work at New 
York University, where he was admitted to the Zeta Psi fraternity, and 
later graduated from Georgetown University and the Georgetown University 
Law Center. He was a member of the Georgetown Hoyas men's basketball team. 
After graduating from law school, Shea worked for two state insurance bureaucracies 
before entering private practice in 1940. He accumulated political contacts 
through volunteer work on influential boards such as the Brooklyn Democratic 
Club and the Brooklyn Public Library. As one account put it: "Shea was 
neither a litigator nor a legal scholar. Rather, he was the sort of lawyer 
whom powerful men trusted with their secrets and whom they could rely upon 
as a go-between. ... [H]e earned a reputation as a man who could get things 
done."[1] In 1958, one year after the Brooklyn Dodgers and New York Giants 
left for Los Angeles and San Francisco, respectively, Mayor Robert Wagner 
of the City of New York asked Shea to chair a committee to return the National 
League to New York. He first tried to bring an existing franchise to New 
York, but the Cincinnati Reds, Philadelphia Phillies, and Pittsburgh Pirates 
all refused his overtures. When requests for expansion were declined, Shea 
proposed a new league, the Continental League, and travelled to a farm 
outside Philadelphia to talk Branch Rickey out of retirement to help him. 
The formation of the Continental League was announced by Rickey in 1959. 
The Continental League would have been a third major league and would have 
begun play in 1961. The threat of a third major league forced Major League 
Baseball to discuss expansion. Two teams would be added to the American 
League in 1961: the Washington Senators (1961–71) – (now the Texas Rangers) 
and the Los Angeles Angels (now in Anaheim), and two more to the National 
League in 1962 (the New York Mets and the Houston Colt .45s—now the Houston 
Astros). With New York virtually assured of one of the new teams, Shea 
abandoned the idea of the Continental League. The New York Mets played 
their first game on April 11, 1962. In 1964, the City of New York named 
the stadium in which the Mets were to play in Shea's honor — Shea Stadium. 
In 2008, the New York Mets retired the name "Shea" on the outfield wall 
of Shea Stadium alongside the other elite players and managers whom the 
Mets have deemed worthy of such an honor over the years (Tom Seaver, Gil 
Hodges, Casey Stengel, and Jackie Robinson (retired by all teams at the 
request of Major League Baseball)). The honor was carried over to Citi 
Field, the new home of the Mets, with the other players’ and managers’ 
numbers. It is doubtful that in the history of organized major league sports 
that an individual's name, as opposed to team jersey number, who was not 
a player or manager or owner, but an executive and a pioneer of the game, 
has ever been retired by any team in any arena or stadium. Currently, there 
are approximately 39 individuals who have been admitted to the Executives 
& Pioneers Division of the Hall of Fame. Of the 15 honored individuals 
admitted to the Executives & Pioneers Division of the Major League Baseball 
Hall of Fame post-World War II, Shea served as a friend, an advisor, a 
peer, and as counsel to no less that two-thirds thereof (Happy Chandler; 
Ford Frick; Warren Giles; Clark Griffith; William Harridge; Bowie Kuhn; 
Leland MacPhail, Sr.; Leland MacPhail, Jr.; Walter O'Malley; Alejandro 
Pompez; Branch Rickey; Bill Veeck; George Weiss; J. Leslie "J.L." Wilkinson; 
Tom Yawkey). Shea was also a counsel to, and a confidant of, lifelong friend, 
George Steinbrenner of the New York Yankees. Shea was a one time owner 
of the Boston Yanks, the Long Island Indians, and a partial owner, with 
lifelong friend Jack Kent Cooke, of the Washington Redskins of the NFL. 
He further persuaded Harry Wismer to sell the New York Jets, and Sonny 
Werblin to buy the New York Jets, and was integral to the creation and 
administration of the initial annual competitions between the AFL and the 
NFL, now known as the Super Bowl. Shea was also hired by Nassau County 
to persuade the NHL to grant a team to the then new Nassau Veterans Memorial 
Coliseum, resulting in the New York Islanders, who began play in 1972. 
Shea was integral to bringing the New Jersey Americans of the American 
Basketball Association to Long Island in 1968 and arranging for them to 
play as the Nets in the Nassau County, as well as the integration of the 
American Basketball Association into the National Basketball Association. 
