Williamstown is a town in Berkshire County, in the northwest corner of 
Massachusetts, United States. It shares a border with Vermont to the north 
and New York to the west. It is part of the Pittsfield, Massachusetts Metropolitan 
Statistical Area. The population was 7,754 at the 2010 census.[1] A college 
town, it is home to Williams College, the Clark Art Institute and the Tony-awarded 
Williamstown Theatre Festival, which runs every July and August. Originally 
called West Hoosac, the area was first settled in 1749. Prior to this time 
its position along the Mohawk Trail made it ideal Mohican hunting grounds. 
Its strategic location bordering Dutch colonies in New York led to its 
settlement, because it was needed as a buffer to stop the Dutch from encroaching 
on Massachusetts.[2] Fort West Hoosac, the westernmost blockhouse and stockade 
in Massachusetts, was built in 1756. The town was incorporated in 1765 
as Williamstown according to the will of Col. Ephraim Williams, who was 
killed in the French and Indian War. He bequeathed a significant sum to 
the town on the condition that it were named after him and started a free 
school. In 1791, the school opened, but only lasted a short time as a free 
school before becoming Williams College in 1793.[3] The primary industry 
was agriculture, particularly dairy farming, sheep herding and wool production. 
Sawmills and gristmills operated by water power at the streams. With the 
Industrial Revolution larger mills were added, including the Walley Mill 
and Williamstown Manufacturing Company (Station Mill), both of which produced 
textiles. The A. Loop & Company (Water Street Mill) produced twine. With 
the opening of the railroad, tourists arrived. Several inns and hotels 
were established, including the Idlewild Hotel and Greylock Hotel.[4] In 
the late 1930s and 1940s, E. Parmelee Prentice and his wife Alta, the daughter 
of John D. Rockefeller, created Mount Hope Farm. With a mansion designed 
by James Gamble Rogers, it was one of the outstanding experimental farms 
in the country. Today, it belongs to Williams College, which remains the 
largest employer in town.[5] According to the United States Census Bureau, 
the town has a total area of 46.9 square miles (121.4 km2), of which 46.8 
square miles (121.1 km2) is land and 0.12 square miles (0.3 km2), or 0.27%, 
is water.[1] Located in the Berkshires, Williamstown is drained by the 
Hoosic River. Williamstown is the northwesternmost town in Massachusetts. 
The town is bordered on the north by Pownal, Vermont, on the east by Clarksburg, 
North Adams and Adams, on the south by New Ashford and Hancock, and on 
the west by Berlin and Petersburgh, New York. The town proper lies southwest 
of the confluence of the Green River and the Hoosic River. To the west, 
the Taconic Range lines the N.Y. state border and is where Taconic Trail 
State Park is located. Brodie Mountain rises to the south of town, and 
Mount Greylock State Reservation occupies the southwest corner of town, 
with the peak of Mount Greylock and its subsidiary peak Mount Fitch just 
over the line in Adams. The highest point in town is at 3,320 feet (1,010 m) 
above sea level, just 0.2 miles (0.32 km) west of the summit of Greylock. 
The Appalachian Trail skirts the town twice, near the southeast corner 
of town and again along the North Adams border. To the northeast, Pine 
Cobble lies along the Clarksburg town line, and to the north lies the Green 
Mountain National Forest in Vermont. U.S. Route 7 passes from north to 
south through the town, crossing into Vermont to the north and New Ashford 
to the south. Massachusetts Route 2 begins in the town, starting from New 
York State Route 2 at the Petersburg Pass, then combining with Route 7 
for a stretch before heading east into North Adams. From Route 7 westward, 
it is known as the Taconic Trail; the road does not become the Mohawk Trail 
in the east until passing through North Adams. Route 43 also begins at 
Route 2 and heads southward towards Hancock, crossing Route 7 near the 
fork of the east and west branches of the Green River. As of the census[16] 
of 2000, there were 8,424 people, 2,753 households, and 1,693 families 
residing in the town. Williamstown is the fourth-largest town in Berkshire 
County, and ranks 189th out of the 351 cities and towns in Massachusetts 
by population. The population density was 179.7 people per square mile 
(69.4/km²), ranking it 7th in the county and 264th in the Commonwealth. 
There were 3,053 housing units at an average density of 65.1 per square 
mile (25.1/km²). The racial makeup of the town was 90.79% White, 2.72% 
Black or African American, 0.11% Native American, 3.12% Asian, 0.12% Pacific 
Islander, 0.77% from other races, and 2.37% from two or more races. Hispanic 
or Latino of any race were 2.77% of the population. There were 2,753 households 
out of which 24.7% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 51.3% 
were married couples living together, 7.9% had a female householder with 
no husband present, and 38.5% were non-families. 32.7% of all households 
were made up of individuals and 15.7% had someone living alone who was 
65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.21 and the average 
family size was 2.80. In the town the population was spread out with 15.3% 
under the age of 18, 27.5% from 18 to 24, 16.6% from 25 to 44, 21.0% from 
45 to 64, and 19.6% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 
36 years. For every 100 females there were 87.8 males. For every 100 females 
age 18 and over, there were 85.8 males. The median income for a household 
in the town was $51,875, and the median income for a family was $67,589. 
Males had a median income of $50,011 versus $32,845 for females. The per 
capita income for the town was $26,039. About 1.7% of families and 5.5% 
of the population were below the poverty line, including 1.3% of those 
under age 18 and 6.8% of those age 65 or over. Williamstown is governed 
by the open town meeting form of government, and is governed by a board 
of selectmen and a town manager. The town has its own police department 
and a volunteer fire department. The town has its own library, Milne Public 
Library, and other public services. The nearest hospital, Berkshire Medical 
Center, is located in Pittsfield, to the south. On the state level, Williamstown 
is represented in the Massachusetts House of Representatives by Representative 
Gailanne Cariddi of the First Berkshire district, which covers northern 
Berkshire County, as well as portions of Franklin County. In the Massachusetts 
Senate, the town is represented by Senator Benjamin Downing of the Berkshire, 
Hampshire and Franklin district, which includes all of Berkshire County 
and western Hampshire and Franklin counties.[17] The town has its own elementary 
school, Williamstown Elementary School, which serves students from pre-kindergarten 
through sixth grade. The town is home to Mount Greylock Regional High School, 
which also serves the neighboring towns of New Ashford, Lanesborough and 
portions of Hancock. The school's colors are red and white, and the sports 
teams are nicknamed the Mounties. Williamstown is also home to Pine Cobble 
School, a private school serving students from pre-kindergarten through 
ninth grade, as well as Buxton School, a private co-educational boarding 
school serving high-school students. Williamstown is home of Williams College, 
an elite, private liberal arts college. The nearest community college is 
Berkshire Community College, located in Pittsfield. The nearest public 
college is Massachusetts College of Liberal Arts in neighboring North Adams, 
and the nearest University of Massachusetts is the University of Massachusetts 
Amherst. Williamstown is crossed by U.S. Route 7, MA Route 2 – also known 
as the Mohawk Trail, and MA Route 43. Town bus service is provided by Berkshire 
Regional Transit Authority (BRTA) to and from North Adams and Pittsfield. 
The Green Mountain Express' Purple Line provides a weekday commuter bus 
route northward to Bennington. Daily intercity bus service to Williamstown 
is operated by Peter Pan Lines to and from New York City, and intermediate 
towns and cities along the way. There is a freight rail line which passes 
from the north to the east into North Adams and the Hoosac Tunnel. The 
nearest Amtrak train station is in Pittsfield. The nearest small-craft 
airport is Harriman-and-West Airport in North Adams, and the nearest airport 
