William Clarence Matthews (January 7, 1877 – April 9, 1928) was an early 
20th-century African-American pioneer in athletics, politics and law. Born 
in Selma, Alabama, Matthews was enrolled at the Tuskegee Institute and, 
with the help of Booker T. Washington (the principal of the institute), 
enrolled at the Phillips Academy in 1900 and Harvard University in 1901. 
At Harvard, he became one of the standout baseball players, leading the 
team in batting average for the 1903, 1904, and 1905 seasons. Matthews, 
having come from poverty and with no living parent, had to financially 
support himself with multiple jobs, but still managed to graduate in 1905 
and was accepted to Boston University School of Law. In the summer of 1905, 
Matthews joined the Burlington, Vermont baseball team of the Northern League, 
making him the only African-American in any white professional baseball 
league at the time. Halfway through the season there were rumors of Matthews 
joining the struggling Boston Beaneaters as the starting second baseman, 
but possible backlash throughout the National League stopped the rumors. 
Matthews joined the Bar association in 1908 and became one of the first 
African-American Assistant District Attorneys in the country. He worked 
as legal counsel to Marcus Garvey before getting active in Republican Party 
politics and helping get Calvin Coolidge elected President in 1924. He 
died in 1928 while serving in Washington, D.C. as a U.S. Assistant Attorney 
General. For challenging the color line in professional baseball he is 
considered by his main biographer, Karl Lindholm, to be "the Jackie Robinson 
of his day".[1] William Clarence Matthews was born the third oldest child 
to William Matthews, a tailor, and Elizabeth Matthews in Selma, Alabama 
on January 7, 1877. He had two siblings, Fannie, the oldest, and Walter 
(or Buddy), the second oldest. His father died in the 1890s and his family 
moved to Montgomery, Alabama. He was enrolled at the Tuskegee Institute 
from 1893 until 1897 where he graduated second in his class, was a standout 
athlete (organizing the first football team and being the captain of the 
baseball team), and became a student of Booker T. Washington.[2] Matthews 
was the first head football coach for the Tuskegee University Golden Tigers 
and he held that position for two seasons, from 1893 until 1895 (there 
was no team in 1894). His coaching record at Tuskegee was 0 wins, 2 losses, 
and 0 ties. Matthews also played on at least one of the teams he coached, 
serving as the captain.[3] As of the conclusion of the 2007 season, this 
ranks him 16th at Tuskegee in total wins and 16th at Tuskegee in winning 
percentage (.000).[4] Washington arranged for Matthews to continue his 
study in the north, first at the Phillips Andover Academy, where he was 
the only African-American in his class of 97 students, and then in the 
Fall of 1901 at Harvard. Matthews was a recognized baseball standout at 
both the Tuskegee Institute and at Phillips Andover, and thus was able 
to walk on to the Harvard varsity baseball team as a Freshman. The tryouts 
for the Harvard Baseball team had over 140 people for only 12 spots, and 
Matthews was one of the first ones selected for the team. His joining the 
team caused some controversy, as one of a few African-American baseball 
players in American colleges at this point, and he had to be held out of 
games occasionally because of protests by other teams. During his sophomore 
year the team cancelled a tour through the southern states entirely.[2] 
The Harvard baseball team was one of the best in the country (coached in 
1902 by Cy Young and W.H. Keller) and Matthews was the star shortstop for 
the team, lettering all four years (1902–1905). Matthews made an important 
contribution his first season by scoring the winning run in the final game 
of the series against Yale in front of 9,000 fans at the Polo Grounds in 
New York City.[5][6] He led the team in hitting his final three years (batting 
a high .400 and stealing 25 bases during his senior year) as the Harvard 
team won 78 games and lost 18 with him over that span.[7] On the Harvard 
Baseball team, he played alongside of Eddie Grant (second baseman) and 
Walter Clarkson (pitcher), both of who would go on to careers in professional 
baseball. However, Matthews was considered by one local paper to be the 
"greatest big league prospect" on the Harvard team.[5] Matthews was highly 
lauded as a member of the Harvard Baseball team with the Boston Post dubbing 
him "no doubt the greatest colored athlete of all time" and "the best infielder 
Harvard ever had."[7] Matthews, as he had done at Tuskegee and Andover, 
also played football. He played as the varsity quarterback for the first 
games of the 1901 season (his Freshman season) until he suffered an injury 
in the Harvard-Army game and became a backup for the rest of the undefeated 
1901 Harvard season. He played his last three years for Harvard but was 
moved primarily to the left end position. In 1904, he was mentioned as 
a potential All-American.[8] While at Harvard, his mentor was William Henry 
Lewis who at that point was the coach of the Harvard football team and 
the first African-American Assistant United States Attorney in the country.[6] 
"I think it is an outrage that colored men are discriminated against in 
the big leagues. What a shame it is that black men are barred forever from 
participating in the national game. I should think that Americans should 
rise up in revolt against such a condition. Many negroes are brilliant 
players and should not be shut out because their skin is black. As a Harvard 
man, I shall devote my life to bettering the condition of the black man, 
and especially to secure his admittance into organized base ball" On July 
4, 1905, Matthews became the starting second baseman for the Burlington, 
Vermont team in the Northern League. Taking the field that day in a doubleheader 
against a team from Rutland, Matthews became the only African-American 
playing in white professional baseball leagues at the time. He got three 
hits in his first game and fielded excellently. He played good for the 
whole season with the Burlington team taking second place and narrowly 
missing first place.[7] In mid-1905, a rumor was published by the Boston 
Evening Traveller that coach Fred Tenney of the Boston National League 
team was thinking of signing Matthews to a contract. The Boston second 
baseman was Fred Raymer who was batting .211 for the season and Tenney 
needed a replacement. Interviewed about the rumor, Matthews was reported 
to have said that "Negroes should not be shut out because their skin is 
black."[7] The rumor quickly dissipated with some claiming that the southern 
teams of the National League had threatened to leave and form a new league 
if Matthews played[5] and others contending that National League President 
Harry Pulliam had intervened to prevent signing Matthews.[6] While playing 
in the Northern League, Matthews faced discrimination from fans and other 
players. Sam Appcrious, who like Matthews was from Selma, refused to play 
against Matthews when their teams played each other. At some points in 
the season, he was moved to the outfield in order to prevent his opponents 
from spiking him (injuring him with their metal cleats when sliding at 
him).[7] The Burlington team, like most of the Northern League teams, was 
staffed by a number of "kangaroos" or players from the National League 
or American League upset with their contracts who would jump from league 
to league. These players would often return to those leagues and leave 
the Burlington team leading to regular turnover of players. Thus, Matthews 
was one of only four players who played for the entire season for the team.[6] 
This would be his only year in professional baseball as he entered Boston 
University School of Law to work on his law degree in Fall 1905. Matthews 
passed the bar exam and got married to Pamela Belle Lloyd from Hayneville, 
Alabama in 1908. He coached Boston high school baseball teams for a few 
years during this period in order to put himself through law school. However, 
Matthews eventually replaced his mentor at Harvard William Henry Lewis 
as the Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Boston area.[6] From 1920 to 1923, 
Matthews became the chief legal counsel for the Marcus Garvy founded Universal 
Negro Improvement Association and African Communities League. During the 
1924 Presidential election, Matthews became an important supporter of the 
Republican Party and Calvin Coolidge. Although both Matthews and his mentor 
at Harvard William Henry Lewis were active Republicans, Lewis decided to 
support John W. Davis, the Democratic candidate for the Presidency because 
he felt the Republicans were not taking a strong enough stance against 
the Ku Klux Klan. Matthews, in contrast, became the Head of the Colored 
Division of the Republican National Committee in 1924.[9] Matthews' position 
was the first time that a major U.S. political party put an African-American 
in charge of efforts to organize the African-American vote.[10] Matthews 
criticized Lewis for leaving the Republican party and because of his efforts 
African-Americans in the North voted overwhelmingly for Coolidge. Following 
the 1924 election, Matthews delivered a list of seventeen demands to improve 
the position of African-Americans in the Coolidge administration.[9] When 
Coolidge won, Matthews moved to Washington, D.C. and became an Assistant 
Attorney General.[1] He was assigned to cases in Nebraska (October 1925), 
Illinois (December 1925), and finally to deal with water issues in California 
(June 1926).[9] Matthews died on April 9, 1928 (51 years old) of a perforated 
ulcer.[2] Obituaries for Matthews ran in most of the major newspapers in 
the country. The New York Times called him "one of the most prominent Negro 
members of the bar in America."[7] His funeral in Boston was attended by 
over 1,500 people with William Henry Lewis serving as an honorary pallbearer.[9] 
Harold Kaese wrote in the Boston Globe in 1965 that Matthews was "the Jackie 
Robinson of his age."[11] Since 2006, the Ivy League baseball team to win 
the conference title receives the William Clarence Matthews Trophy.[12] 
