Wilver Dornell "Willie" Stargell (March 6, 1940 – April 9, 2001), nicknamed 
"Pops" in the later years of his career, was an American professional baseball 
player. He played his entire Major League Baseball (MLB) career (1962–1982) 
as the left fielder and first baseman for the Pittsburgh Pirates of the 
National League (NL). Over his 21-year career with the Pirates, he batted 
.282, with 2,232 hits, 423 doubles, 475 home runs, and 1,540 runs batted 
in, helping his team capture six NL East division titles, two National 
League pennants, and two World Series (1971, 1979). Stargell was inducted 
into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1988.[1] Stargell was born in Earlsboro, 
Oklahoma, but later moved to Florida with an aunt after his parents divorced. 
Later, he returned to Alameda, California, to live with his mother.[2] 
He attended Encinal High School, where his baseball teammates included 
future MLB players Tommy Harper and Curt Motton. Stargell signed with the 
Pittsburgh Pirates organization and entered minor league baseball in 1959.[3] 
Stargell played for farm teams in New Mexico, Iowa, Texas, North Carolina, 
and Ohio.[3] While on the road with some of those teams, Stargell was not 
allowed to stay in the same accommodations as the white players. Lodging 
for black players was located in the poor black areas of those towns. While 
in Plainview, Texas, he was accosted at gunpoint by a man who threatened 
his life if he played in that night's game. Stargell played and nothing 
came of the incident.[4] He might have quit baseball over the racial difficulties 
that he experienced, but he was encouraged by letters he received from 
friend and baseball scout Bob Zuk.[5] Beloved in Pittsburgh for his style 
of play and affable manner, Stargell hit seven of the 18 balls ever hit 
over Forbes Field's 86-foot-high right-field stands [6] and several of 
the upper-tier home runs at its successor, Three Rivers Stadium. Though 
he became quickly known as Willie Stargell, his autograph suggests that 
he preferred his given name, Wilver. Biographer Frank Garland relates that 
Stargell's family and friends called him Wilver and that Dodgers broadcaster 
Vin Scully also made a point of using Stargell's given name. Scully said 
that, because he used the name Wilver, he became Stargell's mother's favorite 
broadcaster.[4] Standing 6 feet 3 inches with long arms and a unique bat-handling 
practice of holding only the knob of the bat with his lower hand to provide 
extra bat extension, Stargell seemed larger than most batters. Stargell's 
swings seemed designed to hit home runs of Ruthian proportions. When most 
batters used a simple lead-weighted bat in the on-deck circle, Stargell 
took to warming up with a sledgehammer. While standing in the batter's 
box, he would windmill his bat until the pitcher started his windup. Stargell 
made his MLB debut at the end of the 1962 season at the age of 22. His 
1963 rookie season was lackluster, but he enjoyed much more success the 
following season, his first as an everyday player. Stargell began and ended 
the season as the Pirates' everyday left-fielder, but spent extended periods 
playing first base, as well. He hit the first home run at Shea Stadium 
in the first game played in that stadium on April 17, 1964.[7] He made 
his first of seven trips to the All-Star Game that year. He returned to 
the All-Star Game the next two seasons, hitting over 100 runs batted in 
(RBI) in both years, and finishing respectively 14th and 15th in MVP voting. 
He won the first of the three NL Player of the Month awards of his career 
in June 1965 (.330, 10 HR, 35 RBI). Frequent offseason conditioning problems 
came to a head in 1967, when Stargell showed up to spring training at a 
weight of 235 pounds. The team mandated that he diet to get down to a weight 
of 215 pounds. His batting average dropped more than .040 points that season; 
his home run total was reduced from 33 in 1966 to 20 in 1967. The team 
had a personal trainer work with Stargell before the 1968 season to get 
him in the best shape of his career, but Stargell had a poor season and 
manager Larry Shepard criticized Stargell's physique as too muscular.[8] 
He finished out the decade with a strong performance in 1969 (.307, 29 
HR, 92 RBI), and finished 21st in MVP voting. Stargell enjoyed another 
fine season in 1970, batting .264 with 31 home runs and 85 RBIs and finishing 
15th in MVP voting. On August 1 of that year, Stargell collected five extra-base 
hits—three doubles and two home runs—in the Pirates' 20-10 victory over 
the Atlanta Braves at Fulton County Stadium. He became the third player, 
after Lou Boudreau in 1946 and Joe Adcock in 1954, to collect five extra-base 
hits in one game. In the same game, teammate Bob Robertson also collected 
five hits, including a home run; not until Andrew McCutchen and Garrett 
Jones in 2012 would two Pirates collect five hits in the same game. The 
1970 Pirates won the National League East title for their first postseason 
berth since winning the 1960 World Series. They were swept in that year's 
NLCS by the Cincinnati Reds, but not before Stargell collected six hits 
in 12 at-bats, the most hits by either team in this series. Stargell's 
career moved to another level in 1971. At age 31, he won the first of his 
two home-run titles in 1971; his 48 edged out Hank Aaron's 47 on the final 
week of the season and, to date, trail only Ralph Kiner's 54 and 51 in 
1949 and 1947, respectively, for most by a Pirate in one season. He won 
the final two NL Player of the Month awards of his career in April (.347, 
11 HR, 27 RBI) and in June (.333, 11 HR, 36 RBI,; yet he did not win the 
MVP award, finishing second to Joe Torre. In seven of the next nine seasons, 
Stargell finished in the top 10 in MVP voting, as his career moved onto 
a Hall of Fame track. He was a member of the Pirates' World Championship 
team, the Pirates defeating the Baltimore Orioles in seven games. The Pirates 
lost the first two games of that series, which Stargell said that media 
began referring to as "the St. Valentine's Day Massacre" before Pittsburgh's 
comeback.[9] Stargell continued to post excellent numbers in 1972 (.293, 
33, 112) finishing third in MVP voting behind Johnny Bench and Billy Williams. 
In 1973 Stargell achieved the rare feat of simultaneously leading the league 
in both doubles and homers. Stargell had more than 40 of each; he was the 
first player to chalk up this 40-40 accomplishment since Hank Greenberg 
in 1940; other players have done so since (notably Albert Belle, the only 
50-50 player). Stargell won his second home-run title that year, edging 
out three Atlanta Braves: Davey Johnson's 43, Darrell Evans' 41 and Aaron's 
40. For the third year in a row, he was narrowly edged out of the MVP award, 
as Pete Rose took the honor. Beginning in 1975, after years of experimenting 
at the position, Stargell moved permanently to first base. He never played 
another game in the outfield. In 1977, Stargell hit his 400th career home 
run on June 30 against the Philadelphia Phillies. Stargell originated the 
practice of giving his teammates embroidered "Stargell stars" for their 
caps after a nice play or a good game. The practice began during the turbulent 
1978 season, when the Pirates came from fourth place and 11.5 games behind 
in mid-August, to challenge the first-place Philadelphia Phillies for the 
division title. The season was scheduled to end in a dramatic, four-game 
showdown against the Phillies in Pittsburgh, in which the Pirates had to 
win all four games to claim the title. Following a Pirate sweep of the 
Friday-night double-header, Stargell belted a grand slam in the bottom 
of the first inning of the season's penultimate game to give the Pirates 
an early 4-1 lead, although the Pirates relinquished that lead later in 
the game and fell two runs short after a four-run rally in the bottom of 
the ninth inning,[10] thus eliminating themselves from contention for the 
pennant. Stargell called that 1978 team his favorite team ever, and predicted 
that the Pirates would win the World Series the following year. The Pirates 
did win the World Series in 1979, in a similar style as they had ended 
the 1978 season: from last place in the NL East at the end of April, the 
Pirates clawed their way into a first-place battle with the Montreal Expos 
during the latter half of the season. They excited fans with numerous come-from-behind 
victories along the way (many during their final at-bat) to claim the division 
pennant on the last day of the season. At his urging as captain, the team 
adopted the Sister Sledge hit song "We Are Family" as the team anthem. 
Then, his play on the field inspired his teammates and earned him the MVP 
awards in both the NLCS and the World Series. Stargell capped off the year 
by hitting a dramatic home run in Baltimore during the late innings of 
a close Game 7 to seal a Pirates' championship. The home run was his third 
of the series and, coincidentally, credited Stargell with the winning runs 
in both game 7s of the two postseason meetings between the Pirates and 
the Orioles (1971 and 1979). The 1979 World Series victory also made the 
Pirates the only franchise in baseball history to twice recover from a 
three-games-to-one deficit and win a World Series (previously they had 
done so in 1925 against the Washington Senators). For the series, Stargell 
went 12-for-30; along with his three home runs, he also recorded four doubles 
for 25 total bases, which remains tied as a World Series record, Reggie 
Jackson having set it in the 1977 World Series, and his seven extra-base 
hits (3 HRs and 4 doubles) in the 1979 World Series also set a record. 
In addition to his NLCS and World Series MVP awards, Stargell finally took 
home the elusive MVP award (as co-winner along with St. Louis' Keith Hernandez) 
at the age of 39. Stargell is the only player to have won all three MVP 
trophies in a single year. He shared the Sports Illustrated magazine's 
"Sportsmen of the Year" award with NFL quarterback Terry Bradshaw, who 
also played at Three Rivers Stadium, for the Pittsburgh Steelers. Pirates 
manager Chuck Tanner said of Stargell, "Having him on your ball club is 
like having a diamond ring on your finger." Teammate Al Oliver once said, 
"If he asked us to jump off the Fort Pitt Bridge, we would ask him what 
kind of dive he wanted. That's how much respect we have for the man." Stargell 
played until 1982, but he never appeared in more than 74 games after 1979.[11] 
He retired with 475 home runs despite playing much of his career at Forbes 
Field, whose deep left-center field distance was 457 feet. Hall of Famer 
Roberto Clemente estimated, perhaps generously, that Stargell hit 400 fly 
balls to the warning track in left and center fields during his eight seasons 
in the park. The short fence in right field (300 feet to the foul pole) 
at Forbes Field was guarded by a screen more than 20 feet high which ran 
from the right-field line to the 375-foot mark in right center. Three Rivers 
Stadium, a neutral hitter's park, boosted Stargell's power numbers. The 
Pirates moved into Three Rivers in mid-1970, and he hit 310 of his 475 
career home runs from 1970 until his retirement, despite turning 30 in 
1970. Stargell's two home run titles came in his first three years at Three 
Rivers. At one time, Stargell held the record for the longest home run 
in nearly half of the NL parks. On August 5, 1969, Stargell hit a home 
run off of Alan Foster that left the stadium and measured 507 feet, the 
longest home run ever hit at Dodger Stadium. He hit a second home run out 
of Dodger Stadium on May 8, 1973, against Andy Messersmith, measured 470 
feet. Dodger starter Don Sutton said of Stargell, "I never saw anything 
like it. He doesn't just hit pitchers, he takes away their dignity." Only 
four other home runs have been hit out of Dodger Stadium. On June 25, 1971, 
Stargell hit the longest home run in Veterans Stadium history during a 
14-4 Pirates win over the Philadelphia Phillies.[12] The spot where the 
ball landed (the shot came in the second inning and chased starting pitcher 
Jim Bunning) was eventually marked with a yellow star with a black "S" 
inside a white circle until Stargell's 2001 death, when the white circle 
was painted black.[13] The star remained in place until the stadium's 2004 
demolition. In 1978, against Wayne Twitchell of the Montreal Expos, Stargell 
hit the only fair ball ever to reach the club deck of Olympic Stadium. 
The seat where the ball landed (the home run was measured at 535 feet) 
was replaced with a yellow seat, while the other seats in the upper deck 
are red. Upon the Expos departure in 2004, the seat was removed and sent 
to the Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame. Bob Prince, the colorful longtime 
Pirate radio announcer would greet a Stargell home run with the phrase 
"Chicken on the Hill". This referred to Stargell's ownership of a chicken 
restaurant in Pittsburgh's Hill District. For a time, whenever he homered, 
Stargell's restaurant would give away free chicken to all patrons present 
in the restaurant at the time of the home run, in a promotion dubbed "Chicken 
on the Hill with Will". Prince himself once promised free chicken to listeners 
if Stargell hit a home run; Stargell did homer and Prince picked up a $400 
bill at the restaurant.[14] After retirement, Stargell spent several years 
as a coach for the Atlanta Braves. He was the first minor-league hitting 
coach for Chipper Jones.[15] He was inducted into the Baseball Hall of 
Fame in 1988, his first year of eligibility. He had an awkward interaction 
with the Pirates that season when the team wanted to schedule a Willie 
Stargell Night to honor his Hall of Fame election. Stargell refused to 
participate in the team's plans, still stinging from the team's refusal 
to even consider him for its managerial job that season.[8] In the 1985 
trial of alleged cocaine dealer Curtis Strong, Stargell was accused by 
Dale Berra and John Milner (both former Pirates teammates) of distributing 
"greenies" (amphetamines) to players.[16] Berra said that he obtained amphetamines 
from Stargell and Bill Madlock; he said he could get them from Stargell 
"on any given day I asked him for one."[17] Stargell strongly denied these 
charges.[16] Commissioner Peter Ueberroth later cleared Stargell and Madlock 
of any wrongdoing.[5] Stargell returned to the Pittsburgh club in 1997 
as an aide to Cam Bonifay, the team's general manager. He also worked as 
a special baseball adviser to Pirates owner Kevin McClatchy, who called 
Stargell "the ultimate class act".[14] Stargell was hospitalized for three 
weeks in 1999 to treat undisclosed medical problems with one of his organs. 
A source close to the Pirates blamed Stargell's health issues on his weight 
gain after retiring as a player. Stargell lost some of that weight, but 
gained weight again while working for the Pittsburgh front office.[18] 
After years of suffering from a kidney disorder, he died of complications 
related to a stroke in Wilmington, North Carolina, on April 9, 2001. In 
his later life, Stargell had also suffered from hypertension and heart 
failure. A segment of Stargell's bowel was removed more than two years 
before he died. He had been in the hospital recovering from a gallbladder 
surgery at the time of his death.[4] On April 7, 2001, two days before 
Stargell died, a larger-than-life statue of him was unveiled at the Pirates' 
new stadium, PNC Park, as part of the opening-day ceremonies.[14] The Pirates 
retired his number in 1982. In 1999, he ranked 81st on The Sporting News' 
list of the 100 Greatest Baseball Players,[19] and was also nominated as 
a finalist for the MLB All-Century Team. He threw out the ceremonial first 
pitch at the 1994 Major League Baseball All-Star Game. Stargell also threw 
out the ceremonial last pitch at Three Rivers Stadium before the team's 
move after the 2000 season. After Stargell died, Joe Morgan said, "When 
I played, there were 600 baseball players, and 599 of them loved Willie 
Stargell. He's the only guy I could have said that about. He never made 
anybody look bad and he never said anything bad about anybody."[5] The 
Willie Stargell Foundation was established to promote research and treatment 
for kidney disease.[20] Champion Enterprises sponsors a Willie Stargell 
Memorial Awards Banquet which raises money for disadvantaged children in 
Pittsburgh.[21] Stargell also worked to raise awareness of sickle cell 
anemia. He formed the Black Athletes Foundation (BAF) shortly after President 
Richard M. Nixon identified the disease as a "national health problem" 
in the early 1970s. For a decade, BAF, renamed the Willie Stargell Foundation, 
raised research money and public awareness about the disease. Starting 
in 1981, sickle cell awareness and fundraising was gradually being assumed 
by The Sickle Cell Society Inc. The Willie Stargell Foundation transitioned 
to raising money for treatment of and research into kidney disease.[22][23][24] 
