Williams College is a private liberal arts college located in Williamstown, 
Massachusetts, United States. It was established in 1793 with funds from 
the estate of Ephraim Williams. Currently ranked 1st place in the U.S. 
News & World Report's liberal arts ranking for the 14th consecutive year,[5] 
Williams College is regarded as a leading institution of higher education 
in the United States.[6] Forbes magazine ranked Williams the second best 
undergraduate institution in the United States in its 2016 publication 
of America's Top Colleges,[7] and the best undergraduate institution in 
its 2010, 2011, and 2014 report.[8] There are three academic curricular 
divisions (humanities, sciences, and social sciences), 24 departments, 
33 majors, and two small master's degree programs in art history and development 
economics. Students may also concentrate in 12 additional academic areas 
that are not offered as majors (e.g., environmental studies). The academic 
year follows a 4–1–4 schedule of two four-course semesters plus a one-course 
"winter study" term in January. There are 334 voting faculty members, with 
a student-to-faculty ratio of 7:1. As of 2012[update], the school has an 
enrollment of 2,052 undergraduate students and 54 graduate students.[9] 
Certain portions of the Williams education is modeled after the tutorial 
systems at the universities of Oxford and Cambridge. Williams is on a 450-acre 
(1.8 km2) campus in Williamstown, Massachusetts in the Berkshires in rural 
northwestern Massachusetts. The campus contains more than 100 academic, 
athletic, and residential buildings.[10] The college competes in the NCAA 
Division III New England Small College Athletic Conference, and competes 
in the conference as the Ephs. The Williams college mascot is a purple 
cow.[11] The college has produced many prominent alumni, including 35 Rhodes 
Scholars,[12] 7 Pulitzer Prize winners, a Nobel Prize Laureate, 54 members 
of the United States Congress, 18 U.S. Governors, four U.S. Cabinet secretaries, 
an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, and a President of the United 
States. Other notable alumni include numerous Marshall Scholarship winners, 
Watson Fellows, Fulbright recipients,[13] CEOs and founders of Fortune 
500 companies, high-ranking U.S diplomats, scholars in academia, literary 
and media figures, and professional athletes. Colonel Ephraim Williams 
was an officer in the Massachusetts militia and a member of a prominent 
landowning family. His will included a bequest to support and maintain 
a free school to be established in the town of West Hoosac, Massachusetts, 
provided that the town change its name to Williamstown. Williams was killed 
at the Battle of Lake George on September 8, 1755.[14] After Shays' Rebellion, 
the Williamstown Free School opened with 15 students on October 26, 1791. 
The first president was Ebenezer Fitch. Not long after its founding, the 
trustees of the school petitioned the Massachusetts legislature to convert 
the free school to a tuition-based college. The legislature agreed and 
on June 22, 1793, Williams College was chartered. It was the second college 
to be founded in Massachusetts. At its founding, the college maintained 
a policy of racial segregation, refusing admission to black applicants. 
This policy was challenged by Lucy Terry Prince, who is credited as the 
first black American poet,[15] when her son Festus was refused admission 
to the college on account of his race.[16] Prince, who had already established 
a reputation as a raconteur[17] and rhetorician, delivered a three-hour 
speech before the college's board of trustees, quoting abundantly from 
scripture, but was unable to secure her son's admission.[16] More recent 
scholarship, however, has highlighted how there are no records within the 
college itself to confirm that this event occurred, and that Festus Prince 
may have been refused entry for an insufficient mastery of Latin, Greek, 
and French, all of which were necessary for successful completion of the 
entrance exam at the time, and which would most likely not have been available 
in the local schools of Guilford, Vermont, where Festus was raised.[18] 
In 1806, a student prayer meeting gave rise to the American Foreign Mission 
Movement. In August of that year, five students met in the maple grove 
of Sloan's Meadow to pray. A thunderstorm drove them to the shelter of 
a haystack, and the fervor of the ensuing meeting inspired them to take 
the Gospel abroad. The students went on to build the American Board of 
Commissioners for Foreign Missions, the first American organization to 
send missionaries overseas. The Haystack Monument near Mission Park on 
the Williams Campus commemorates the historic "Haystack Prayer Meeting". 
By 1815, Williams had only two buildings and 58 students and was in financial 
trouble, so the board voted to move the college to Amherst, Massachusetts. 
In 1821, the president of the college, Zephaniah Swift Moore, who had accepted 
his position believing that the college would move east, decided to proceed 
with the move. He took 15 students with him, and re-founded the college 
under the name of Amherst College. Some students and professors decided 
to stay behind at Williams and were allowed to keep the land, which was 
at the time relatively worthless. According to legend, Moore also took 
portions of the Williams College library. Though plausible, the transfer 
of books is unsubstantiated. Moore died just two years later after founding 
Amherst, and was succeeded by Heman Humphrey, a trustee of Williams College.[19] 
Edward Dorr Griffin was appointed President of Williams and is widely credited 
with saving Williams during his 15-year tenure. A Williams student, Gardner 
Cotrell Leonard, designed the gowns he and his classmates wore to graduation 
in 1887.[20] Seven years later he advised the Inter-Collegiate Commission 
on Academic Costume, which met at Columbia University, and established 
the current system of U.S. academic dress.[21] One reason gowns were adopted 
in the late nineteenth century was to eliminate the differences in apparel 
between rich and poor students.[22] During World War II, Williams College 
was one of 131 colleges and universities nationally that took part in the 
V-12 Navy College Training Program which offered students a path to a Navy 
commission.[23] Originally a men's college, Williams became co-educational 
in 1970. Fraternities were also phased out during this period, beginning 
in 1962.[24] In the last decade, construction has changed the look of the 
college. The addition of the $38 million Unified Science Center to the 
campus in 2001 set a tone of style and comprehensiveness for renovations 
and additions to campus buildings in the 21st century. This building unifies 
the formerly separate lab spaces of the physics, chemistry, and biology 
departments. In addition, it houses Schow Science Library, notable for 
its unified science materials holdings and architecture. It features vaulted 
ceilings and an atrium with windows into laboratories on the second through 
fourth floors of the science center. In 2003, Williams began the first 
of three massive construction projects. The $60 million '62 Center for 
Theatre and Dance was the first project to be successfully completed in 
the spring of 2005. The $44 million student center, called Paresky Center, 
opened in February 2007. Construction had already begun on the third project, 
called the Stetson-Sawyer project, when economic uncertainty stemming from 
the 2007 financial crisis led to its delay. College trustees initially 
balked at the cost of the Stetson-Sawyer project, and revisited the idea 
of renovating Sawyer in its current location, an idea which proved not 
to be cost-effective.[25] The entire project includes construction of two 
new academic buildings, the removal of Sawyer Library from its current 
location, and the construction of a new library at the rear of a renovated 
Stetson Hall (which served as the college library prior to Sawyer's construction). 
The academic buildings, temporarily named North Academic Building and South 
Academic Building, were completed in fall of 2008. In the spring of 2009, 
South Academic Building was renamed Schapiro Hall in honor of former President 
Morton O. Schapiro. In the spring of 2010 the North Academic Building was 
renamed Hollander Hall. Construction of the new Sawyer Library was completed 
in 2014, after which the old Sawyer Library was razed. After several years 
of planning, the college decided to group undergraduates starting with 
the Class of 2010 into four geographically coherent clusters, or "Neighborhoods".[26] 
Since the fall of 2006, first-years have been housed in Sage Hall, Williams 
Hall and Mission Park, while the former first-year dormitories East College, 
Lehman Hall, Fayerweather, and Morgan, joined the remaining residential 
buildings as upperclass housing. During the spring 2009 semester, a committee 
formed to evaluate the neighborhood system, and released a report the following 
fall.[27] From 2003 through 2008, Williams conducted a capital campaign 
with the goal of raising $400 million by September 2008. The college reached 
$400 million at the end of June 2007. By the close of the campaign, Williams 
had raised $500.2 million.[28] As of the 2008/09 school year, the College 
eliminated student loans from all financial aid packages in favor of grants. 
The College was the fourth institution in the United States to do so, following 
Princeton University, Amherst College, and Davidson College.[29] However, 
in February 2010, the College announced that it would re-introduce loans 
to its financial aid packages beginning with the Class of 2015 due to the 
college's changed financial situation.[30][31][32] In January 2007 the 
board voted unanimously to reduce college CO2 emissions 10% below 1990 
levels by 2020, or roughly 50% below 2006 levels.[33] To meet those goals, 
the college set up the Zilkha Center for Environmental Initiatives and 
undertaken an energy audit and efficiency timeline. Williams received an 
'A-' on the 2010 College Sustainability Report Card, following 'B+' grades 
on both the 2008 and 2009 report cards.[34] In December 2008, President 
Morton O. Schapiro announced his departure from the college to become president 
of Northwestern University.[35] On September 28, 2009, the presidential 
search committee announced the appointment of Adam Falk as the 17th president 
of Williams College. Falk, dean of the Zanvyl Krieger School of Arts and 
Sciences at Johns Hopkins University, began his term on April 1, 2010.[36] 
Dean of the Faculty William Wagner took the position of interim president 
beginning in June 2009, and continued in that capacity until President-elect 
Falk took office. In 2014, Williams College brought their endowment above 
the 2 billion mark and reported their lowest acceptance rate, with 16.8% 
of the student being accepted.[37] Williams is a small, four-year liberal 
arts college[38] accredited by the New England Association of Schools and 
Colleges.[39] There are three academic curricular divisions (humanities, 
sciences, and social sciences), 24 departments, 33 majors, and two small 
master's degree programs in art history and development economics. Students 
may also concentrate in 12 additional academic areas that are not offered 
as majors (e.g., environmental studies). The academic year follows a 4–1–4 
schedule of two four-course semesters plus a one-course "winter study" 
term in January. During the winter study term, students study various courses 
outside of typical curriculum for 3 weeks. Students typically take this 
course on a pass/fail basis. Past course offerings have included: Ski patrol, 
Learn to Play Chess, Accounting, Inside Jury Deliberations, and Creating 
a Life: Shaping Your Life After Williams, among many others. Williams students 
often take the winter study term to study abroad or work on intensive research 
projects. The college's 2015-2016 Comprehensive Fee was $64,790;[40] or 
$63,290 (if study abroad program is not pursued).[41] 53% of students were 
given need-based financial aid, which averaged $46,006.[42] Williams sponsors 
the Williams–Mystic program at Mystic Seaport; the Williams–Exeter Programme 
at Exeter College of Oxford University;[43] and Williams in Africa. Williams 
has a close relationship with Exeter College, one of the oldest constituent 
colleges of Oxford University. In the early 1980s, Williams purchased a 
group of houses, today known as the Ephraim Williams House, on Banbury 
Road and Lathbury Road, in North Oxford.[44] The Williams-Exeter Programme 
at Oxford (WEPO) was founded in 1985. Every year (except 2010–2011, when 
24 students attended), 26 undergraduate students from Williams spend their 
junior year at Exeter as full members of the college.[45] Williams is classified 
as "most selective" by U.S. News & World Report[50] and "more selective" 
by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.[51] For freshmen 
students enrolling in fall 2015, the average SAT scores were 720 in critical 
reading, 708 in math, and 714 in writing.[47] The average ACT Composite 
score was 32.[47] In Forbes' 2014 college rankings, Williams was ranked 
the best undergraduate institution in the United States. In 2015 and in 
2016, it was ranked the second best undergraduate institution in the United 
States.[55] Williams was also ranked 1st in U.S. News & World Report's 
2016 ranking[56] Williams is ranked 1st by the National Collegiate Scouting 
Association, which ranks colleges based on student-athlete graduation rates, 
academics, and athletics.[57] Williams was chosen by 37 other institutions 
as a peer with a similar level of academic quality, making it ranked 9th 
overall and 5th among liberal arts colleges.[58] Williams selected 10 colleges 
as its peers, namely Amherst, Bates, Bowdoin, Carleton, Dartmouth, Grinnell, 
Middlebury, Pomona, Swarthmore, and Wesleyan.[59] Williams ranked 8th among 
colleges and universities in the percentage of students who graduate in 
four years.[60] Certain portions of the Williams education is modeled after 
the tutorial systems at the universities of Oxford and Cambridge. Although 
tutorials at Williams were originally aimed at upperclassmen, the faculty 
voted in 2001 to expand the tutorial program.[61] There is now a diverse 
offering of tutorials, spanning many disciplines, including math and the 
sciences, that cater to students of all class years. In 2009–2010 alone, 
62 tutorials were offered in 21 departments.[62] Enrollment for tutorials 
is capped at 10 students, who are then divided into five pairs that meet 
separately with the professor once a week. Each week, one of the students 
writes and presents a 5–7-page paper while the other student critiques 
it. The same pair reverses roles for the next week. The professor takes 
a more limited role than in a traditional lecture class, and usually allows 
students to steer and guide the direction of the conversation. Professor 
( and former Dean and English Department Chair) Stephen E. Fix was one 
of the early advocates for expanding the tutorial system at Williams and 
worked to increase support for the concept and the number of tutorial classes 
offered to students. Student course evaluations for tutorials are typically 
very high. In a survey of alumni who had taken tutorials, more than 80% 
found their tutorials to be "the most valuable of my courses" at Williams.[63] 
The Board of Trustees of Williams College has 25 members and is the governing 
authority of the College.[64] The President of the College serves on the 
Board ex officio. There are five Alumni Trustees, each of whom serves for 
a five-year term. There are five Term Trustees, each elected by the Board 
for five-year terms. The remaining 14 members are Regular Trustees, also 
elected by the Board but serving up 15 years, although not beyond their 
seventieth birthday. The current Chair of the Board of Trustees is Michael 
Eisenson. The Board appoints as senior executive officer of the college 
a President who is also a member of and the presiding officer of the faculty. 
Nine senior administrators report to the President including the Dean of 
the Faculty, Provost, and Dean of the College. Adam F. Falk was recently 
elected the 17th president of Williams, and took office on April 1, 2010. 
College Council (CC) is the student government of Williams College. Its 
members are elected to represent each class year, the first-year dorms, 
and the student body at large. CC allocates funds from the Student Activities 
Fee, appoints students to the faculty-student-administration committees 
that oversee most aspects of College life, and debates issues of concern 
to the entire campus community. College Council is the forum through which 
students address concerns and make changes around campus. CC is led by 
two co-Presidents. To manage its endowment the college started the Williams 
College Investment Office in 2006. The Investment Office is located in 
Boston, Massachusetts. In 2014, the endowment had a rate of return of 9.9%. 
The endowment-per-student ratio is currently $1.17 million, without adjusting 
for inflation, while in 1990 it was $151,000. Adjusting for inflation, 
the endowment-per-student ratio has still increased to almost $600,000.[65] 
The Chief Investment Officer of the Investment Office is Collette Chilton. 
Williams is on a 450-acre (180-hectare) campus in Williamstown, Massachusetts 
in the Berkshires in rural northwestern Massachusetts. The campus contains 
more than 100 academic, athletic, and residential buildings.[10] The early 
planners of Williams College eschewed the traditional collegiate quadrangle 
organization, choosing to freely site buildings among the hills. Later 
construction, including East and West Colleges and Griffin Hall, tended 
to cluster around Main Street in Williamstown. The first campus quadrangle 
was formed with East College, South College, and the Hopkins Observatory.[66] 
The Olmsted Brothers design firm played a large part in shaping the campus 
design and architecture. In 1902, the firm was commissioned to renovate 
a large part of campus, including the President’s House, the cemetery, 
and South College; as well as incorporating the George A. Cluett estate 
into the campus acreage. Although these campus renovations were completed 
in 1912, the Olmsted Brothers would advise the gradual transformation of 
campus design for six decades. The present-day grounds layout reflects 
much of the design intent of the Olmsted Brothers.[67] Williams College 
is the site of the Hopkins Observatory, the oldest extant astronomical 
observatory in the United States.[68] Erected in 1836–1838, it now contains 
the Mehlin Museum of Astronomy, including Alvan Clark's first telescope 
(from 1852),[68] as well as the Milham Planetarium, which uses a Zeiss 
Skymaster ZKP3/B optomechanical projector and an Ansible digital projector, 
both installed in 2005. The Hopkins Observatory's 0.6-m DFM reflecting 
telescope (1991) is installed elsewhere on the campus.[69] Williams joins 
with Wellesley, Wesleyan, Middlebury, Colgate, Vassar, Swarthmore, and 
Haverford/Bryn Mawr to form the Keck Northeast Astronomy Consortium, sponsored 
for over a decade by the Keck Foundation and now with its student research 
programs sponsored by the National Science Foundation.[70] Hopkins Hall 
serves as the administration building on campus, housing the offices of 
the president, Dean of the Faculty, registrar, and provost, among others. 
There is a Newman Center on campus. The Chapin Library supports the liberal 
arts curriculum of the college by allowing students close access to a number 
of rare books and documents of interest. The library opened on June 18, 
1923, with an initial collection of 9,000 volumes contributed by alumnus 
Alfred Clark Chapin, Class of 1869. Over the years, Chapin Library has 
grown to include over 50,000 volumes (including 3,000 more given by Chapin) 
as well as 100,000 other artifacts such as prints, photographs, maps, and 
bookplates.[71] The library is currently located on the fourth floor of 
the recently reopened Sawyer Library. The Chapin Library's Americana collection 
includes original printings of all four founding documents of the United 
States: the Declaration of Independence, the Articles of Confederation, 
the Constitution, and the Bill of Rights. Additionally it houses George 
Washington's copy of The Federalist and the British reply to the Declaration 
of Independence.[72] The Chapin Library's science collection includes a 
first edition of Nicolaus Copernicus's De revolutionibus orbium coelestium, 
as well as first editions of books by Tycho Brahe, Johannes Kepler, Galileo, 
Isaac Newton, and other major figures.[73] The Williams College Museum 
of Art (WCMA), with over 12,000 works (only a fraction of which are displayed 
at any one time) in its permanent collection, serves as an educational 
resource for both undergraduates and students in the graduate art history 
program.[74] Notable works include Morning in a City by Edward Hopper,[75] 
a commissioned wall painting by Sol LeWitt,[76] and a commissioned outdoor 
sculpture and landscape work by Louise Bourgeois entitled Eyes.[77] Though 
often overshadowed by the neighboring and much larger Clark Art Institute 
and Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art, WCMA remains one of the premier 
attractions of the Berkshires. Because the museum is intended primarily 
for educational purposes, admission is free for all students.[74] Located 
in front of the West College dormitory, the Hopkins gate serves as a memorial 
to brothers Mark and Albert Hopkins. Both made lasting contributions to 
the Williams College community. Mark was appointed as president of the 
college in 1836,[78] while Albert was elected a professor in 1829.[79] 
The Hopkins gate is inscribed with an inspirational motto that is familiar 
to all in the Williams College community. Climb High, Climb Far Your Goal 
the Sky, Your Aim the Star. The longest running student newspaper at Williams 
is the Williams Record, a weekly broadsheet paper published on Wednesdays. 
The newspaper was founded in 1887, and now has a weekly circulation of 
3,000 copies distributed in Williamstown, in addition to more than 600 
subscribers across the country. The newspaper used to not receive financial 
support from the college or from the student government and relied on revenue 
generated by local and national ad sales, subscriptions, and voluntary 
contributions for use of its website, but the paper went into debt in 2004 
and is now subsidized by the Student Activities Tax. Both Sawyer Library 
and the College Archives maintain more than a century's worth of publicly 
accessible, bound volumes of the Record. The newspaper provides access 
free of charge to a searchable database of articles stretching back to 
1998 on its website. The student yearbook is called The Gulielmensian, 
which means "Williams Thing" in Greek.[80] It was published irregularly 
in the 1990s, but has been annual for the past several years and dates 
back to the mid-19th century.[80] Numerous smaller campus publications 
are also produced each year, including The Telos, a journal of Christian 
thought, The Cowbell, a humor magazine, the Williams College Law Journal, 
a collection of undergraduate articles, "the Literary Review, a literary 
magazine, and Monkeys With Typewriters, a magazine of non-fiction essays. 
WCFM is a college-owned, student-run, non-commercial radio station broadcasting 
from the basement of Prospect House at 91.9 MHz.[81] Featuring 85 hours 
per week of original programming, the station features a wide variety of 
musical genres, in addition to sports and talk radio.[82] The station may 
also be heard on the Internet via SHOUTcast.com. Members of the surrounding 
communities above the age of 18 are allowed to DJ on the station, which, 
as part of its mission, seeks to serve the surrounding community with news 
and announcements of public interest.[83] The board of the radio station 
holds a concert every semester.[84] At the end of every semester but one 
since 1966, WCFM has hosted an all-night, eight-hour trivia contest. Teams 
of students, alumni, professors, friends, and others compete to answer 
questions on a variety of subjects, while simultaneously identifying songs 
and performing designated tasks. The winning team's only prize is the obligation 
to create and host the following semester's contest.[85] The precise date 
of the debut contest is uncertain. Most spring contests occur in early 
May, but during its first decade, Williams Trivia was sometimes held in 
March or February. Assuming a May date, Lawrence University's 50-hour-long 
Great Midwest Trivia Contest, first held on April 29, 1966, would be the 
oldest continuous competition of its sort in the United States, but if 
the first Williams contest was held earlier, it would be the oldest. The 
distinction is, appropriately, trivial.[86] While other college-based trivia 
contests in the United States emphasize marathon endurance and revel in 
the obscurity of their arcana, the aim of the Williams contest is to cram 
as much evocative and entertaining material into as concentrated a space 
as possible. Lasting just eight hours, a typical Williams Trivia contest 
will demand between 900 and 1,200 separate "bits" of trivial information,[85] 
delivering twice as much content as its "competitors" in a fraction of 
the time. No discernible rivalry exists between any of the various contests. 
The contest has occasionally received outside media coverage, including 
in the Sunday New York Times.[87] Williams's school colors are purple and 
gold, with purple as the primary school color.[88] A story explaining the 
origin of purple as a school color says that at the Williams-Harvard baseball 
game in 1869, spectators watching from carriages had trouble telling the 
teams apart because there were no uniforms. One of the onlookers bought 
ribbons from a nearby millinery store to pin on Williams' players, and 
the only color available was purple. The buyer was Jennie Jerome (later 
Winston Churchill's mother) whose family summered in Williamstown.[11] 
The Williams college mascot is a purple cow.[11] The mascot's name, Ephelia, 
was submitted in a radio contest in October 1952 by Theodore W. Friend, 
a senior at Williams.[89] The origins of the cow mascot are unknown, but 
one possibility is that it was inspired by the Purple Cow humor magazine, 
a student publication begun in 1907, which used the college color along 
with a cow.[89] The title of the humor magazine was in reference to Gelett 
Burgess's nonsense poem known as the Purple Cow: I never saw a purple cow 
I never hope to see one; But I can tell you, anyhow, I'd rather see than 
be one! The Williams College athletic teams are referred to as the Ephs 
(rhymes with chiefs) in honor of Colonel Ephraim Williams. Williams claims 
the first alma mater song written by an undergraduate, "The Mountains," 
was by Washington Gladden of the class of 1859.[90][91] On one of the first 
three Fridays in October, the president of the college cancels classes 
and declares it Mountain Day. The bells ring, announcing the event, members 
of the Outing Club unfurl a banner from the roof of Chapin Hall and students 
hike up Stony Ledge. At Stony Ledge, they celebrate with donuts, cider 
and a cappella performances. The first known mention of Mountain Day was 
made by Williams president Edward Dorr Griffin in his notebook on college 
business. He wrote, under 'Holidays': "About the 24th of June a day to 
go to the mountain. If not then about the 14th of July. Prayers at night."[92] 
In 2009, with the threat of bad weather for each of the first three Fridays 
of the month, Interim-president Wagner declared "Siberian Mountain Day." 
Festivities were relocated from Stony Ledge to the much more accessible 
Stone Hill.[93] The school's athletic teams are called the Ephs (rhymes 
with "chiefs"), a shortening of the first name of founder Ephraim Williams. 
The mascot is a Purple Cow. They participate in the NCAA's Division III 
and the New England Small College Athletic Conference. Williams also competes 
in skiing and squash at the Division I level. Williams is ranked first 
among Division III schools for athletic spending per student.[94] Williams 
has a traditional rivalry with Amherst College and Wesleyan University. 
The "Little Three", a subset of NESCAC, comprises the three schools[95] 
Although Williams College typically sports purple and gold as their school 
colors, purple is in fact the only school color. The gold was added in 
order to differentiate its colors from that of rival school Amherst's purple 
and white uniforms. On May 3, 2009, Williams and Amherst alumni played 
a game of vintage baseball at Wahconah Park according to 1859-rules to 
commemorate the 150th-anniversary of the first college baseball game, which 
was played on July 2, 1859, between the two schools. Until 1994, Williams 
was not permitted, by NESCAC rules, to compete in team NCAA competition. 
The Williams women's swimming and diving team won the school's first national 
title in 1981, and claimed the title in 1982 as well. Williams played in 
the 2003, 2004, 2010, and 2014 men's basketball Division III national championship 
games, winning the title in March 2003. Men's basketball also played in 
the 1997, 1998 and 2011 Final Fours. Williams was the first New England 
basketball team to win a Division III championship, and since they have 
been eligible to compete in the NCAA tournament, no team in the country 
has played in more Final Fours. Williams teams to win national titles since 
Williams began participating in NCAA tournaments in 1994 include women's 
crew (nine titles, including eight straight from 2006–2013), men's tennis 
(four), women's tennis (nine, including six straight from 2008–2013), men's 
cross country (two), women's cross country (three), men's basketball, women's 
indoor track and field, women's golf (2015), men's soccer (1995), and women's 
soccer (2015). Williams has won the NACDA Director's Cup 19 of the 21 years 
since its inception, including 13 years in a row from 1999 through 2011. 
Williams also has an active club and intramural sports program, offering 
14 club sports including ultimate, rugby, horseback riding, cycling, fencing, 
volleyball, gymnastics, sailing, and water polo. Approximately 50% of Williams' 
students compete on at least one varsity, junior varsity, or formal club 
team. Williams College has had major updates or renovations of its athletic 
facilities during the past several decades. The Lansing Chapman hockey 
rink, built in 1953 and originally uncovered, was canopied in 1963, enclosed 
in 1969 and has been periodically upgraded to the present (2014) with rink, 
roof, locker room and lighting improvements. The Towne Field House, constructed 
in 1970, is a multipurpose facility, which includes an indoor track, tennis 
courts and a climbing wall. The later was initially constructed in 1974 
and updated to a state of the art climbing wall in 1995. The field house 
also accommodates pre-season baseball, softball and lacrosse. The Lasell 
Gym built in 1886 was renovated and expanded with the addition of the Chandler 
Athletic Center in 1987. It provides a state of the art 50-meter swimming 
pool, a gymnasium primarily for basketball, squash facilities, wrestling 
rooms, various fitness centers and administrative offices. In 1987, the 
Weston Field cinder running track and baseball field were replaced: the 
Anthony Plansky 400-meter track was built around the refurbished football 
field and the Bobby Coombs baseball field was re-located at Cole Field. 
The Renzi Lamb Field for lacrosse and field hockey, built with artificial 
turf, was added to Weston Field in 2004. In November 2013 Williams College 
began its 22 million dollar renovation of the Weston Field complex. This 
upgrade includes an artificial turf football field, relocation of the Plansky 
Track and Lamb Field, new bleachers, improved lighting and the addition 
of support buildings for the athletes. The completed facility, scheduled 
to reopen in September 2014, will allow year round athletic events and 
practice.[96] Williams enrolled 2,052 undergraduate students and 54 graduate 
students in 2012.[42] In 2010, women constituted 51.8% of undergraduate 
students and 61% percent of graduate students.[42] 50% of students receive 
need-based financial aid and 409 students (19%) qualify to receive Pell 
Grants.[98] Williams has a 97% freshman retention rate and a 91% four-year 
graduation rate.[99] 89% of students graduated in the top tenth of their 
high school graduating class and the inter-quartile range on the SAT was 
670–780 for reading, 670–770 for math, and 660–780 for writing.[42] Williams 
has 334 voting faculty, 92% of whom possess a doctorate or the terminal 
degree in their field.[100] Students fill out course surveys at the end 
of each semester, which play a large role in determining faculty tenure 
decisions. Recently, there has been controversy over popular teachers being 
denied tenure based on other factors, including publication rates.[101] 
Notable former and present faculty include: As of August, 2013, there are 
30,300 living alumni of record, and 70 regional alumni associations nationwide 
and overseas. Alumni participation in the 2011-12 Alumni Fund was 62.5%. 
More than 58% of the alumni from the classes of 1980 to 2000 have earned 
at least one graduate or professional degree. The most popular graduate 
disciplines for alumni are management, education, law, and health care.[109] 
The Society of Alumni of Williams College is the oldest existing alumni 
society of any academic institution in the United States.[110] The Society 
of Alumni was founded during the "Amherst crisis" in 1821, when Williams 
College President Zephaniah Swift Moore left Williams. Graduates of Williams 
formed the Society to ensure that Williams would not have to close, and 
raised enough money to ensure the future survival of the school. Coordinates: 
