William Ambrose Hulbert (October 23, 1832 – April 10, 1882) was one of 
the founders of the National League, recognized as baseball's first major 
league, and was also the president of the Chicago White Stockings franchise. 
Born in Burlington Flats, New York, Hulbert moved with his family to Chicago 
two years later where he lived the rest of his life save for a stint at 
Beloit College beginning in 1847. When he returned to Chicago from school, 
he married into the family of a successful grocer and expanded the business 
into the coal trade. A backer of the Chicago White Stockings baseball club 
of the National Association from its inception in 1871, Hulbert became 
an officer of the club in 1874 when it resumed play after being forced 
to sit out two seasons due to the Great Chicago Fire and assumed the presidency 
the next year. In his brief tenure as a club president in the National 
Association, Hulbert soon became fed up with the circuit's lack of definite 
structure, organization, and integrity. He was particularly disgusted by 
the Davy Force case in 1874. Force, the shortstop of the White Stockings 
that year, was a notorious "contract jumper", a common occurrence in the 
National Association in which players would move from team to team each 
year selling themselves to the highest bidder. Determined to keep his shortstop, 
Hulbert signed him to a contract for the 1875 season in September, before 
the 1874 season had concluded, a violation of league rules. In December, 
Force signed a second contract with the Philadelphia Athletics, and Hulbert 
protested. The Association Judiciary committee originally awarded Force 
to Chicago, but at a second meeting in early 1875, after a Philadelphia 
man had been elected president of the association, the decision was reversed. 
Hulbert became convinced that the Eastern ballclubs were conspiring to 
keep the Western clubs second-class citizens and plotted to overthrow the 
might of the Boston Red Stockings, which won each association pennant between 
1872 and 1875. To do so, he convinced Illinois native and star Boston pitcher 
Al Spalding to sign with Chicago for the 1876 season and also signed Boston 
stars Cal McVey, Deacon White, and Ross Barnes and Philadelphia stars Cap 
Anson and Ezra Sutton, though Sutton later backed out of his deal. The 
signings were made while the 1875 season was in progress, but Hulbert decided 
to anticipate league disciplinary action by establishing his own league. 
After enlisting the support of Western clubs including the Cincinnati Red 
Stockings, the St. Louis Brown Stockings, and the Louisville Grays, Hulbert 
held a meeting with the Eastern clubs of the Mutual of New York, the Athletic 
of Philadelphia, the Boston Red Stockings, and the Hartford Dark Blues 
on February 2, 1876, at the Grand Central Hotel in New York City and sold 
them on his vision for a new league founded on the principles of square 
dealings, recognition of contracts, and business integrity along with a 
more orderly game on the field through prohibitions on drinking, gambling, 
and Sunday baseball and more definite organization off it through limiting 
membership to cities of 75,000 inhabitants or more, giving clubs exclusive 
territorial rights, and mandating teams to complete a predetermined schedule. 
The result was the founding of the National League of Professional Baseball 
Clubs. At the founding meeting, straws were drawn to determine the first 
president of the circuit, and Hartford president Morgan Bulkeley drew the 
short straw. He only remained president for one year and took little interest 
in the affairs of the league, not even bothering to attend the 1877 league 
meeting. When he did not show up, Hulbert was elected the new president, 
retaining his presidency of the White Stockings as well. In his tenure 
as president from 1877 to his death in 1882, Hulbert ruled with an iron 
fist and took steps to insure league integrity and compliance with league 
rules. His first major act was expelling the New York and Philadelphia 
clubs from the league for failure to complete their 1876 schedules as required. 
While losing clubs in the two most populous cities in the United States 
was a serious blow, the expulsion sent a clear message that the lax adherence 
to league rules that had plagued the National Association would not be 
tolerated. Also in response to the New York/Philadelphia scheduling problem, 
Hulbert ended the practice of clubs determining their schedules through 
the club secretaries by declaring that the league itself would establish 
the schedule. Hulbert also instituted the practice of the league hiring 
of umpires to bolster public perceptions of league integrity. Perhaps his 
greatest challenge was dealing with four members of the Louisville ball 
club who conspired to throw the 1877 pennant. In a move that established 
a precedent for future handling of dishonest ballplayers, Hulbert banned 
all four players from the league for life. The banning had a ripple effect 
across the league that led to the Louisville, St. Louis, and Hartford franchises 
folding, and the league began to face a crisis as Hulbert was forced to 
replace these and other teams over the years with clubs from smaller cities 
such as Providence, Indianapolis, Milwaukee, and Syracuse. In 1879, after 
the Cincinnati franchise nearly collapsed amid controversy created by having 
three star players making more money than the rest of the team combined, 
Hulbert oversaw the imposition of the first reserve rule designed to curb 
player salaries and prevent players jumping from team to team. Hulbert's 
final major act as president also involved the Cincinnati franchise. While 
it was understood from the league's inception that beer and Sunday baseball 
were inappropriate, they were not actually prohibited by league rules, 
and the Cincinnati club, playing in a city with a large German population 
fond of beer and Sunday entertainment, practiced both activities to boost 
revenue. This led the league to pass new rules banning both for the 1881 
season and then expelling the unapologetic Cincinnati club for violating 
a rule that would not go into effect for two more months. This final league 
expulsion brought the National League its greatest challenge yet, as Cincinnati 
spearheaded the creation of the rival American Association in 1882 that 
moved into populous areas abandoned by the NL over the years such as New 
York and Philadelphia. Hulbert did not live to see this rival franchise 
begin play, however, dying of a heart attack in 1882 at the age of 49 two 
weeks before the AA made its debut. For decades, Hulbert was kept out of 
the Baseball Hall of Fame despite his critical role in founding the first 
professional league. This was because when American League founder and 
first president Ban Johnson was elected to the Hall in 1937, it was decided 
that an early National League executive should be enshrined as well, and 
apparently not looking into history too closely, the electors chose to 
elect Morgan Bulkeley because he was the first president of the league. 
This injustice was finally rectified by the veterans committee, which enshrined 
Hulbert in 1995. Hulbert is buried in Graceland Cemetery under a grave 
marker designed to look like a baseball. In addition to his name and his 
birth and death dates, the marker includes the names of the cities originally 
