Willard Mullin (September 14, 1902 – December 20, 1978) was an American 
sports cartoonist. He is most famous for his creation of the "Brooklyn 
Bum",[1] the personification of the Brooklyn Dodgers baseball team. He 
was widely published: he cartooned daily for Scripps-Howard's New York 
World-Telegram and Sun for decades and was often published in Scripps-Howard's 
twenty papers, as well as in the Sporting News.[1] An oversize retrospective 
collection of Willard Mullin cartoons entitled Willard Mullin's Golden 
Age of Baseball: Drawings 1934–1972 was published by Fantagraphics Books 
in 2013. The book also contains biographical and historical information. 
In 2015, Fantagraphics Books published Willard Mullin's Casey at the Bat 
and Other Diamond Tales. This book features Mullin's thirteen drawings 
to match the thirteen verses of Ernest L. Thayer's famous baseball poem, 
the poem as written in Mullin's once-celebrated cartoon lettering style, 
and a few selections from Mullin's other baseball cartoons. Until the Fantagraphics 
publication, the Mullin "Casey" had only ever been seen by those who attended 
an early 1950s convention of the National Association, then the overseers 
of minor league baseball and were given copies of the Mullin "Casey." He 
received the Reuben Award in 1954 for his work, as well as the National 
Cartoonist Society Sports Cartoon Award for each year from 1957 through 
1962, and again in 1964 and 1965. Mullin was mentioned in a Peanuts cartoon 
by Charles Schulz. Lucy is upset about hurting her arm playing baseball 
and starts naming people she will sue from Abner Doubleday to Babe Ruth 
to finally Willard Mullin – to which Charlie Brown, obviously shocked, 
replies "Willard Mullin?" [2] Mullin was also the correct answer in syndicated 
newspaper trivia columnist's Wilson Casey list of questions for Friday 
August 6, 2016. What late cartoonist created the "Brooklyn Bum", his personification 
of the Brooklyn Dodgers MLB team? CHOICES: Willard Mullin, Charles Schulz, 
