William Alan Finn (born February 28, 1952) is an American composer and 
lyricist of musicals. His musical Falsettos received the 1992 Tony Awards 
for Best Music and Lyrics and for Best Book. Finn was born in Boston, Massachusetts. 
He is Jewish,[1] and grew up in Natick, Massachusetts with his parents, 
and siblings, Michael and Nancy. While attending Natick High School, Finn 
competed with the Natick Speech Team. He majored in music at Williams College 
in Williamstown, Massachusetts. When he graduated, he received the Hutchinson 
Fellowship (a musical composition award).[2] He is also Adjunct Faculty 
Composer/Lyricist at New York University.[3] Finn is a heavily autobiographical 
writer; he always writes his own lyrics. His topics have included the gay 
and Jewish experiences in contemporary America, and also family, belonging, 
sickness, healing, and loss. According to a 2006 article, "The Washington 
Post called him 'the composer laureate of loss.'"[4] Finn is especially 
noted for his work on what was to become a trilogy of short musicals Off-Broadway. 
In Trousers, March of the Falsettos, and Falsettoland all chronicle the 
lives of the character Marvin, his ex-wife Trina, his boyfriend, Whizzer, 
his psychiatrist, Mendel, and his son, Jason.[5] Falsettos, the combination 
of the latter two parts of his Marvin Trilogy (March of the Falsettos and 
Falsettoland), opened on Broadway at the John Golden Theater on April 29, 
1992,[5] and ran for 486 performances. It won the 1992 Tony Awards for 
Best Music and Lyrics and for Best Book, the latter shared with James Lapine. 
With Lapine, Finn penned a musical loosely based on his near-death experience 
following brain surgery, exploring the role of music in his life and recovery. 
The musical's main character is a man who has what may be terminal brain 
cancer. Finn's longtime partner, Arthur Salvadore, is represented by the 
character Roger Delli-Bovi. Finn's mother is also present in the piece.[4] 
That musical, A New Brain, starred Malcolm Gets, Kristin Chenoweth and 
Chip Zien, and premiered Off-Broadway at the Lincoln Center Theater in 
1998.[6] The musical won the 1999 Outer Critics Circle Award for Outstanding 
Off-Broadway Musical. The UK premiere was at the 2005 Edinburgh Festival 
Fringe. At the 2006 Elliot Norton Awards Ceremony, Finn brought his High 
School drama teacher, Gerry Dyer, onstage with him to present an award. 
Finn said of Dyer that he "imbued us with a ridiculous sense of our own 
self-worth."[7] Another student of Gerald Dyer, Alison Fraser, found fame 
on Broadway, collaborating with Finn in the original casts of In Trousers 
and March of the Falsettos. Finn had another Broadway success with The 
25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee, for which he wrote both music and 
lyrics. The show won two Tony Awards in 2005-one for Best Book of a Musical, 
and another for the Best Performance by a Featured Actor in a Musical. 
It ran Off-Broadway, then on Broadway in 2005[8] and toured the United 
States in 2006. The show was first workshopped and produced at Barrington 
Stage Company (BSC) in Pittsfield, MA, where Finn later created The Musical 
Theatre Lab (MTL) with BSC Artistic Director Julianne Boyd. The MTL is 
an annual summer lab where emerging musical theatre artists are supported 
and new musical works are created, fine-tuned and produced under the curatorship 
of Finn and Boyd.[9] Three musical revues or song suites of Finn's music 
have been produced: Finn's first show was called "Sizzle" and was produced 
at Williams College in the fall of 1971. Finn wrote the music and lyrics, 
and his good friend, Charlie Rubin, wrote the libretto. "Sizzle" was the 
first original musical produced on the Williams College campus since Stephen 
Sondheim attended the college over 20 years earlier. Sizzle was a coming 
of age musical about college students but concluded in an unusual way with 
the star of the show, played by J. Tyler Griffin, Jr., dying in an electric 
chair. "Sizzle" played to packed houses. Rubin possesses a reel-to-reel 
tape containing excerpts from the show, including most of the music. His 
long-in-development show, The Royal Family of Broadway, with a book by 
Richard Greenberg, was based on the play by George S. Kaufman and Edna 
Ferber, which tells the story of a girl from a family of great Broadway 
actors who contemplates leaving show business and getting married. It has 
apparently been shelved, according to William Finn's personal notes for 
Make Me A Song, Playbill magazine and an article from 2006.[4][13] Finn's 
songs were featured exclusively on Lisa Howard's album Songs of Innocence 
and Experience, released on April 12, 2011.[14] The musical comedy Little 
Miss Sunshine, premiered at the La Jolla Playhouse, California, from February 
15, 2011 through March 27, 2011. James Lapine wrote the book and is the 
director, set design by David Korins, staging by Lapine and Christopher 
Gattelli. The opening night cast featured Hunter Foster (Richard), Malcolm 
Gets (Frank), Dick Latessa (Grandpa), Taylor Trensch (Dwayne), Georgi James 
(Olive), and Jennifer Laura Thompson (Sheryl).[15][16] The ensemble, who 
Jay Irwin wrote "...took the small parts they were given and ran with them, 
almost right out of the theater as each of them brilliantly played the 
comedic relief to the family's "straight man"", starred Bradley Dean, Carmen 
Ruby Floyd, Eliseo Roman, Andrew Samonsky, Sally Wilfert, and Zakiya Young. 
Little Miss Sunshine, began previews Off Broadway at the Second Stage Theatre 
in New York on October 15, 2013, with the opening scheduled for November 
14, 2013. Finn's frequent collaborators include librettist James Lapine, 
director Graciela Daniele and singers/actors Stephen Bogardus, Carolee 
Carmello, Stephen DeRosa, Alison Fraser, Keith Byron Kirk, Norm Lewis, 
Michael Rupert, Mary Testa, and Chip Zien. Finn was one of a selected few 
composers who contributed to the song cycle Stars of David which premiered 
in October 2012 at the Philadelphia Theatre Company. It was based off the 
Abigail Pogrebin's book Stars of David: Prominent Jews Talk About Being 
Jewish and starred Nancy Balbirer, Alex Brightman, Joanna Glushak, Brad 
Oscar and Donna Vivino.[17] Finn also contributed to the Off-Broadway musical 
Mama & her Boys.[18] In 1992, Finn suffered deteriorating vision, dizziness 
and partial paralysis and was rushed to the hospital. He had arteriovenous 
malformation, or AVM, in his brain stem. In September, 1992, he had Gamma 
Knife surgery, which obliterated the AVM. After the surgery, Finn experienced 
a year of humbled serenity and constantly felt like he had a "new brain." 
Finn's 1998 musical A New Brain is based on his experience with AVM and 
his subsequent successful surgery.[4] He lives with his life partner, Arthur 
Salvatore, in New York City[19] and Pittsfield, Massachusetts, where he 
is a composer and writer.[3] Besides composing for the stage and screen, 
Finn is member of the NYU Tisch Graduate Program in Musical Theater Writing 
faculty and he has been the Artistic Head of the Musical Theater Lab at 
the Barrington Stage Company in Pittsfield, Massachusetts for the past 
