William Edward Benswanger (February 22, 1892 – January 15, 1972) was an 
American businessman who served for almost 15 years as president and chief 
executive of the Pittsburgh Pirates Major League Baseball franchise, from 
1932 through 1946. Born in New York City, Benswanger moved with his family 
to Pittsburgh when he was five years of age. Upon adulthood, he entered 
his family's insurance business, then served in the United States Army's 
balloon corps during World War I. He also was an accomplished pianist and 
musician and served on the board of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra for 
two decades. Benswanger became involved in baseball through his marriage 
to Eleanor Fanny Dreyfuss, a daughter of longtime Pirates owner Barney 
Dreyfuss. The elder Dreyfuss was grooming his son, Samuel, to succeed him 
as club president, but Samuel Dreyfuss died suddenly in 1931 from pneumonia 
at age 35. The following year, Barney Dreyfuss died as well. Dreyfuss' 
widow, Florence, inherited the team, and successfully prevailed upon Benswanger, 
her son-in-law, to become the Pirates' president and front-office boss. 
He would lead the team from 1932 through the 1946 season. During that time, 
the Pirates boasted a number of star players, including Baseball Hall of 
Fame members Paul Waner, Lloyd Waner, Pie Traynor and Arky Vaughan. But, 
apart from four second-place finishes, they resided in the middle- to lower-rung 
of the National League and were late in developing a farm system, the surest 
method at the time of attaining sustained success in baseball. On the plus 
side, Benswanger kept the team going through the Great Depression and brought 
back all-time great Honus Wagner to serve as a coach. Benswanger's last 
year as president, 1946, was especially tumultuous. Robert Murphy, a Boston 
labor lawyer, organized the American Baseball Guild, a players' union and 
predecessor of the Major League Baseball Players Association. Early demands 
included a minimum salary, standardization of player contracts, and an 
increase in per-diem expense reimbursements (amending or abolishing the 
reserve clause was not yet on the table). Murphy targeted the Pirates as 
the testing ground for signing members of the Guild because of Pittsburgh's 
reputation as a union stronghold. The majority of the Pirates joined the 
Guild, with the notable exception of veteran pitcher Rip Sewell. Benswanger, 
as point man for the Major League owners, would not negotiate with the 
Guild, and Murphy threatened a strike for the Pirates' June 7 game with 
the New York Giants. In a pre-game players-only meeting, a majority voted 
in favor of striking, but the Guild failed to procure a two-thirds consensus 
(thanks to Sewell's strong opposition) and the threat evaporated. The failure 
of the strike vote fatally wounded the Guild; the owners made minor concessions 
to players, and staved off the effective creation of a union until the 
MLBPA was formed in 1966.[1] At the same time Benswanger was fending off 
the American Baseball Guild, the Dreyfuss family's 46-year ownership of 
the team was coming to a close. In August 1946, the Pirates were purchased 
by an ownership group headed by Indianapolis businessman Frank E. McKinney, 
and which included entertainer Bing Crosby, Pittsburgh attorney Thomas 
Johnson, and Columbus, Ohio-based real estate magnate John W. Galbreath. 
Benswanger stepped down as club president upon completion of the sale. 
He died in Pittsburgh at age 79. Prior to Branch Rickey's efforts with 
the Brooklyn Dodgers, Benswanger was one of the few owners and executives 
who vocally challenged Major League Baseball's color barrier and its major 
