The Williamsport Crosscutters are a Class A-Short Season Minor League Baseball 
team based in Williamsport, Pennsylvania, in the United States. They are 
a Philadelphia Phillies affiliate in the short-season New York–Penn League, 
playing their home games at BB&T Ballpark at Historic Bowman Field, the 
second oldest minor league ballpark in the United States. Through 1993, 
the club was the Geneva Cubs, playing in Geneva, New York. For the 1994 
season, the club moved to Williamsport, occupying an historic facility 
that had not been used for professional baseball for the previous two seasons. 
The club became known as the Williamsport Cubs, a Class A short season 
affiliate of the Chicago Cubs, retaining that name through 1998. In 1999, 
the team switched affiliations from the Chicago Cubs to the Pittsburgh 
Pirates and the team name became "the Crosscutters". At the end of the 
2006 season, the team became an affiliate of the Philadelphia Phillies, 
with the Pittsburgh affiliation switching to the State College Spikes. 
The Crosscutters shared the New York–Penn League championship with the 
Brooklyn Cyclones in 2001, after losing the first game of the series. Both 
teams were declared champions after the remainder of the series was canceled 
in the wake of the September 11, 2001 attacks. The Crosscutters again made 
the playoffs in 2002 but were eliminated in the first round. However, the 
team returned to win the championship series, against the Cyclones, in 
2003. The name "Crosscutters" reflects the logging heritage of Williamsport, 
once known as the "Lumber Capital of the World." The city, historically 
having the largest amount of millionaires per capita, is on the West Branch 
Susquehanna River, and logging barons once lived in mansions along Fourth 
Street, which became known as "Millionaires' Row". To this day, sports 
teams at Williamsport Area High School are known as the Millionaires. The 
2015 season saw the Williamsport Crosscutters clinch their first Pinckney 
Division Championship since 2001. In 2001, the Crosscutters and Brooklyn 
Cyclones were declared the New York–Penn League's co-champions. The Crosscutters 
lost the first game of the best of three championship series, and the rest 
of the series was cancelled after the September 11, 2001 attacks. In 2003, 
the Crosscutters won the New York–Penn League championship outright, defeating 
the Cyclones in two games to sweep the series. In 2015, the Crosscutters 
won the New York-Penn League Pinckney Division, posting a league best record 
of 46-30. The Crosscutters would be eliminated from the playoffs by the 
West Virginia Black Bears two games to one. The Black Bears would go on 
to win the 2016 New York Penn League Championship. Cutters' secondary Cutters' 
former primary Cutters' primary The official colors of the Williamsport 
Crosscutters are Phillies red, navy blue, gray, dark tan, and ivory.[1] 
The team most recently changed its brand prior to the 2008 season, one 
year following an affiliation change from the Pittsburgh Pirates to the 
Philadelphia Phillies. The colors resemble the red, white, and blue scheme 
of the Phillies, but with some additional colors and minor tweaks. The 
former colors were burgundy and black. The Crosscutters wear a red cap 
with the W-shaped saw cap logo in dark tan and ivory for home games, and 
a navy blue cap with a logo depicting a capital "C" superimposed over a 
tree stump. The home uniforms include sleeveless, white jerseys with traditional 
red piping and the "Cutters" wordmark in grey and red, outlined in navy 
blue. The number on the back is in navy blue with white and red outline. 
The undershirts are red, with the secondary logo centered on the left sleeve. 
The socks and belts are also red. The away uniforms are grey, but otherwise 
the same as the homes. Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager 
Coaches 7-day disabled list * On Philadelphia Phillies 40-man roster # 
Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended list † Temporary 
inactive list Roster updated July 9, 2016 Transactions → More MiLB rosters 
