William Henry Keeler (March 3, 1872 – January 1, 1923), nicknamed "Wee 
Willie", was a right fielder in Major League Baseball who played from 1892 
to 1910, primarily for the Baltimore Orioles and Brooklyn Superbas in the 
National League, and the New York Highlanders in the American League. Keeler, 
one of the best hitters of his time, was elected into the National Baseball 
Hall of Fame. William Henry O'Kelleher, Jr. (He later Americanized the 
name to Keeler) was born in Brooklyn, New York on March 3, 1872, the son 
of William O'Kelleher, Sr., a trolley switch man. He played baseball from 
an early age, and as a freshman served as captain of his high school team. 
He quit school the following year, and played semi-pro baseball in the 
New York City area. In 1892 he joined the minor league team in Binghamton, 
New York, and he was called up to the New York Giants at the end of the 
season. After a trip back to the minors because of an injury at the start 
of the 1893 season, He returned to the Giants later that year. Initially 
a third baseman, he later moved to the outfield. He quickly established 
himself as a star, and played until retiring in 1910. Keeler's advice to 
hitters was "Keep your eye clear, and hit 'em where they ain't"—"they" 
being the opposing fielders. His .385 career batting average after the 
1898 season is the highest average in history at season's end for a player 
with more than 1,000 hits (1,147 hits).[1] He compiled a .341 batting average 
over his career, currently 14th all time. He hit over .300 16 times in 
19 seasons, and hit over .400 once. He twice led his league in batting 
average and three times in hits. Keeler had an amazing 206 singles during 
the 1898 season, a record that stood for more than 100 years until broken 
by Ichiro Suzuki. Additionally, Keeler had an on-base percentage of greater 
than .400 for seven straight seasons. When Keeler retired in 1910, he was 
third all-time in hits with 2,932, behind only Cap Anson and Jake Beckley. 
He was one of the smallest players to play the game, standing 5' 4½" and 
weighing 140 pounds (64 kg), resulting in his nickname. Keeler was elected 
to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1939. He appeared as number 75 on The Sporting 
News' list of the "100 Greatest Baseball Players".[2] In 1999, he was named 
as a finalist to the Major League Baseball All-Century Team. Having played 
his last game in 1910, he was the most chronologically distant player on 
both Top 100 lists. Keeler had the ability to bunt most balls pitched to 
him, enabling him to avoid striking out; his skill at prolonging at bats 
by fouling pitches off with this method was the impetus for the rule change 
that made a foul bunt with two strikes a strike out. With Ned Hanlon's 
Baltimore Orioles he perfected the "Baltimore Chop", in which he would 
chop the ball into the ground hard enough to cause a high bounce, which 
enabled him to reach first base before a fielder could glove the ball and 
throw him out. Bill James has speculated that Keeler introduced the hit 
and run strategy to the original Orioles and teammate John McGraw. In James' 
theory, Boston's Tommy McCarthy was the first manager to make wide use 
of the hit and run. McCarthy then taught it to John Montgomery Ward, who 
taught it to Keeler.[3] In forming the powerful original Baltimore Orioles 
of the late 19th century, manager Ned Hanlon was given an ownership stake 
in the team and a free rein to form his team. In one of the most one-sided 
trades in baseball history, Hanlon obtained Dan Brouthers and Keeler from 
Brooklyn in exchange for Billy Shindle and George Treadway. Keeler and 
six of his teammates from the Orioles eventually were inducted into the 
Hall of Fame.[4] In 1897, Keeler had a 44-game hitting streak to start 
the season, beating out the previous single season record of 42, set by 
Bill Dahlen. Keeler had a hit in his final game of the 1896 season, giving 
him a National League record 45-game hitting streak. This mark was surpassed 
by Joe DiMaggio in 1941, who had a 56-game hitting streak. In 1978, Pete 
Rose tied Keeler's single season mark of 44 games. No other player in baseball 
has ever matched this feat. Keeler also had eight consecutive seasons with 
200 hits or more, a record broken by Ichiro Suzuki in 2009.[5] In 1901 
when Ban Johnson formed the American League, one of the first acts was 
to raid the National League and offer their stars big contracts. In 1901, 
Keeler received offers from six of the eight new American League clubs, 
including an offer from Chicago for two years at $4,300 a season. Keeler 
remained in Brooklyn and did not actually jump to the new league until 
1903, when he signed with the New York Highlanders (later renamed as the 
Yankees. In 1905, Keeler set the Yankees team record for most sacrifice 
hits in a season with 42.[6] He remained with the Highlanders through 1909, 
and played the 1910 season with the New York Giants. Keeler played in 1911 
for the Eastern League’s Toronto Maple Leafs, and had 43 hits in 39 games. 
After his retirement, Keeler was a scout and coach for the Superbas and 
the Boston Braves, as well as Brooklyn's Federal League team, the Tip-Tops. 
He was wealthy after retiring as a player, and invested in mining companies, 
real estate and other ventures. His real estate lost value in the post-World 
war I economic recession, and by the time of his death his brothers and 
he had had to sell their childhood home. Keeler suffered from tuberculosis 
and endocarditis for the last five years of his life. By late 1922, his 
condition had worsened and it was doubtful whether he would live into the 
new year. Seriously ill by New Year's Eve, he heard bells and sirens in 
the streets when the new year arrived. Keeler sat up and said to his brother, 
"You see, the new year is here and so am I—still."[7] He enjoyed a drink 
and a smoke, then said that he was ready for a long sleep.[7] A short time 
later, Keeler died; he was 50.[8] He is buried in Calvary Cemetery in Queens, 
New York. Keeler is mentioned in the poem "Line-Up for Yesterday" by Ogden 
Nash. K is for Keeler, As fresh as green paint, The fastest and mostest 
