Willie Mays Aikens (born October 14, 1954) is a former Major League Baseball 
first baseman. He had established himself as one of the top sluggers in 
the game before drugs derailed his career. In 1994, Aikens was sentenced 
to twenty years in prison on four counts of crack cocaine distribution 
and one count of use of a firearm during drug trafficking. He was released 
on June 4, 2008 after changes in federal drug laws, and is sometimes cited 
as an example of the results of mandatory minimum sentencing in drug-related 
crimes. Aikens grew up in poverty in the Bruce Hill community of Seneca, 
South Carolina. He was a standout athlete in baseball, football and basketball 
at Seneca High School, and attended historically black South Carolina State 
University on a baseball and football scholarship. When S.C. State dropped 
baseball after Aikens' freshman year, Willie McNeil, Aikens' high school 
baseball coach, helped him catch on with a semi-pro summer baseball league 
in Baltimore, Maryland. While playing in Baltimore, he caught the eye of 
California Angels scout Walter Youse and was drafted by the Angels with 
the number two overall pick in the January 1975 Amateur draft.[1] Aikens 
soon emerged as one of the top sluggers in California's farm system, slugging 
a league leading thirty home runs and driving in 117 runs for the El Paso 
Diablos in 1976. He debuted with the Angels in 1977; however, after batting 
an unimpressive .230 with no home runs mostly as a pinch hitter and designated 
hitter, he was returned to the minors. He received a second call to the 
majors that September, but fared even worse, collecting just four hits 
in thirty at-bats. Aikens returned to his slugging ways in 1978, batting 
.326 with 29 home runs and 110 runs batted in for the Pacific Coast League's 
Salt Lake City Gulls. He returned to the majors in 1979, assuming DH duties 
and replacing Rod Carew at first base in June and July while the future 
Hall Of Famer was out with a thumb injury.[2] He batted .280 with 21 home 
runs and 81 RBIs his rookie season. That winter, he and Rance Mulliniks 
were traded to the Kansas City Royals for Al Cowens, Todd Cruz and a player 
to be named later. Aikens inherited the first base job upon his arrival 
in Kansas City despite not being a very good fielder (he committed a league-leading 
twelve errors in 1980). He finished second to George Brett on his team 
in both home runs and RBIs with 20 and 98, respectively. The Royals won 
their division by 14 games to face the New York Yankees in the American 
League Championship Series for the third time in four years. After having 
come up short in 1976, 1977 and 1978, the Royals swept the Yankees in three 
games in the 1980 American League Championship Series to face the Philadelphia 
Phillies in the World Series. Aikens hit two home runs in Game 1 (his 26th 
birthday)[3] and Game 4[4] of the 1980 World Series. He was, until Chase 
Utley accomplished the same feat in 2009, the only player in World Series 
history to hit two home runs in the same game twice during the same World 
Series.[5] He also collected the game-winning RBI in the tenth inning of 
Game 3, the Royals' first-ever win of a World Series game.[6] Aikens batted 
.400, but the Royals lost the World Series in six games. Aikens led the 
Royals in both home runs and RBIs in the strike shortened 1981 season. 
His Royals returned to the postseason, but were swept by the Oakland Athletics 
in the 1981 American League Division Series. For his part, Aikens batted 
.333 (three for nine) and also reached base three times via base on balls. 
However, he failed to score or drive in any runs. He batted over .300 for 
the first time in his career in 1983, only to see his career rapidly began 
to decline afterwards. Toward the end of the 1983 season, Aikens and several 
of his Royals teammates were questioned by U.S. attorney Jim Marquez in 
connection with a federal cocaine probe. Following the season, Aikens, 
Jerry Martin and Willie Wilson pleaded guilty to attempting to purchase 
cocaine, while former teammate Vida Blue pleaded guilty to possession of 
three grams of cocaine.[7] Aikens, Blue, Martin and Wilson were all sentenced 
to three months in prison. Shortly after Aikens' November 17 sentencing, 
he was traded to the Toronto Blue Jays for designated hitter Jorge Orta. 
Aikens was originally suspended by Baseball Commissioner Bowie Kuhn for 
a year. Following a May 15, 1984 review, he was reinstated, and joined 
his Toronto teammates in Minnesota the next day. In 93 games, Aikens hit 
11 home runs and drove in just 26. The Jays released Aikens a month into 
the 1985 season, and re-signed him to a minor league contract. Despite 
a healthy .311 batting average and sixteen home runs with the Syracuse 
Chiefs, he never returned to the majors. He played four games for the New 
York Mets' AAA affiliate, the Tidewater Tides in 1986 before heading to 
Mexico to join the Mexican Pacific League's Yaquis de Obregón. Aikens played 
for six years in the Mexican League, where he was regularly among the league's 
top hitters. Aikens' 21 home runs in 1979 was tops among MLB rookies, and 
he received a league leading twelve intentional walks in 1981. His 129 
OPS+ is the fourth highest in Royals history behind Danny Tartabull, George 
Brett & John Mayberry.[8] He hit a home run in his final major league at 
bat on April 27, 1985.[9] Aikens was called to testify in the Pittsburgh 
drug trials of Curtis Strong as his major league career was winding down. 
His legal problems continued after his retirement, culminating in his being 
found guilty of selling fifty grams of crack cocaine to an undercover police 
officer and sentenced to twenty years and eight months in prison in 1994. 
Aikens had developed a heavy cocaine habit and, by his own admission, was 
constantly using the drug from 1991 to 1994. Supposedly, a former lover 
tipped off the Kansas City, Missouri Police Department that Aikens was 
selling narcotics at his home.[10] Consequently, in December 1993, the 
police put Aikens' condominium under surveillance. The police observed 
numerous individuals entering Aikens' home and then exiting after a brief 
stay. On December 8, 1993, an undercover police officer named Ginger Locke 
approached Aikens standing in the garage of his condominium and asked for 
directions. After Aikens gave Locke directions, he told her that he was 
listed in the phone book and asked her to call him sometime. Locke called 
Aikens numerous times in order to establish a rapport with him. On January 
18, 1994, Locke called Aikens and told him that she had loaned her car 
to a friend, and that the friend had been caught with some "stuff", referring 
to crack cocaine, in the car. Locke's story initiated a discussion about 
narcotics. Eventually, Aikens let Locke know that he could get her "all 
the stuff" she wanted. Later that day, Locke drove to Aikens' home and 
asked him if she could buy an "eight ball", i.e. an eighth of an ounce 
of cocaine. Aikens asked Locke if she wanted her cocaine "hard", (crack 
form), or "soft", (powder form). She replied that she wanted it "hard." 
Aikens pointed to some crack cocaine sitting on an ottoman in his den and 
indicated that he did not have a full "eight ball" of crack on hand. He 
told Locke that he would have to make some more. Using equipment which 
he kept in his den, Aikens quickly proceeded to make crack by mixing powder 
cocaine with baking soda in a glass beaker, pouring water on it, heating 
it with a hand-held torch, baking it in a microwave, and then rinsing it 
with cold water. Aikens weighed some of the crack that he had made, along 
with some of the crack which he already possessed, on a dial-a-gram scale, 
and sold it to Locke for $200. On January 24, 1994, Locke visited Aikens' 
home to buy more cocaine. Aikens had Locke drive him to his supplier's 
Kansas City home, where he used Locke's money to purchase powder cocaine. 
On the way back to Aikens' home, Aikens had Locke stop at stores where 
he could buy beakers and baking powder. When Aikens and Locke returned 
to Aikens' home, Aikens converted the powder cocaine into crack, and he 
sold the crack to Locke. On January 28 and February 23 of 1994, Locke returned 
to Aikens' home and arranged to buy more crack. On each occasion, Aikens 
called a supplier and had Locke accompany him while he obtained powder 
cocaine. On each occasion, Aikens converted the powder into crack upon 
returning to his home and sold the crack cocaine to Locke. In total, Aikens 
ending up selling about 2.2 ounces to the undercover cop. He was arrested 
on March 2, 1994,[11] and after a March 17 mistrial,[12] a grand jury indicted 
Aikens on four charges of crack cocaine distribution in violation of 21 
U.S.C on March 25.[13] Because of the tougher federal guidelines for crack, 
he was sentenced as if he had sold fifteen pounds of powder cocaine. He 
received the maximum sentence of fifteen years and eight months, and received 
an additional five years because he allegedly had a loaded gun in the room 
where the drugs were sold.[14] Aikens served his prison sentence in United 
States Penitentiary, Atlanta, and was scheduled to be released in 2012. 
He was released on June 4, 2008, three months after Congress approved new 
guidelines in the federal drug laws and made them retroactive. Hal McRae, 
the only former Royals teammate with whom Aikens corresponded while in 
prison, set Aikens up with a job in road construction, working in manholes.[15] 
Since his release, Aikens has spoken at schools about his experiences and 
to the Royals' young players, always hoping to return to baseball.[16] 
In November 2008, he apologized to Royals fans and the people of Kansas 
City in the Kansas City Star.[17] On February 1, 2011, the Royals announced 
that they had hired Aikens as a minor league coach who will be based at 
the franchise's complex at Surprise, Arizona.[18] The employment was delayed 
when his wife, Sara, suffered a stroke,[19] believed to have been a complication 
of lupus. Aikens has three daughters: Nicole and Sarita with Sara, and 
