Wilmington is a port city and the county seat of New Hanover County in 
coastal southeastern North Carolina, United States.[2] The population is 
112,067; according to the 2010 Census it is the eighth most populous city 
in the state. Wilmington is the principal city of the Wilmington Metropolitan 
Statistical Area, a metropolitan area that includes New Hanover and Pender 
counties in southeastern North Carolina,[3] which has a population of 263,429 
as of the 2012 Census Estimate. Wilmington was settled by European Americans 
along the Cape Fear River. Its historic downtown has a one-mile-long Riverwalk, 
originally developed as a tourist attraction, and in 2014 Wilmington's 
riverfront was named the "Best American Riverfront" by USA Today.[4] It 
is minutes away from nearby beaches. The National Trust for Historic Preservation 
named Wilmington, North Carolina, as one of its 2008 Dozen Distinctive 
Destinations.[5] City residents live between the river and the ocean, with 
four nearby beach communities: Fort Fisher, Wrightsville Beach, Carolina 
Beach, and Kure Beach, all within half-hour drives from downtown Wilmington. 
In 2003 the city was designated by the US Congress as a "Coast Guard City".[6] 
It is the home port for the USCGC Diligence, a United States Coast Guard 
medium endurance cutter.[7] The World War II battleship USS North Carolina 
is held as a war memorial; located across from the downtown port area, 
the ship is open to public tours. Other attractions include the Cape Fear 
Museum, the Wilmington Hammerheads United Soccer Leagues soccer team. The 
University of North Carolina Wilmington (UNCW) provides a wide variety 
of programs for undergraduates, graduate students, and adult learners, 
in addition to cultural and sports events open to the community. Wilmington 
is the home of EUE Screen Gems Studios, the largest domestic television 
and movie production facility outside of California. "Dream Stage 10," 
the facility's newest sound stage, is the third-largest in the US. It houses 
the largest special-effects water tank in North America. After the studio's 
opening in 1984, Wilmington became a major center of American film and 
television production. Numerous movies in a range of genres and several 
television series, including Iron Man 3, Fox's Sleepy Hollow, One Tree 
Hill, Dawson's Creek and NBC's Revolution, were produced there. In recent 
years, however, the end of state tax credits to the industry has severely 
impacted filmmaking in the entire area. The area had long been inhabited 
by various cultures of indigenous peoples; at the time of European encounter, 
historic Native Americans were tribes belonging to the Algonquian languages 
family. The ethnic European and African history of Wilmington spans more 
than two and a half centuries. Giovanni da Verrazano is reportedly the 
first European to observe the area, including the city's present site, 
in the early 16th century. The first permanent European settlement in the 
area came in the 1720s when English colonists began settling the area. 
In September 1732, a community was founded on land owned by John Watson 
on the Cape Fear River, at the confluence of its northwest and northeast 
branches.[8] The settlement, founded by the first royal governor, George 
Burrington, was called "New Carthage," and then "New Liverpool;" it gradually 
took on the name "New Town" or "Newton".[9] Governor Gabriel Johnston soon 
after established his government there for the North Carolina colony. In 
1739 or 1740, the town was incorporated with a new name, Wilmington, in 
honor of Spencer Compton, Earl of Wilmington.[10] Some early settlers of 
Wilmington came from the Albemarle and Pamlico regions, as well as from 
the colonies of Virginia and South Carolina, but most new settlers arrived 
from the northern colonies, the West Indies, and the British Isles.[11] 
Many of the settlers were indentured servants, mainly from the British 
Isles and northern Europe. As the indentured servants gained their freedom, 
the colonists imported an increasing number of (permanent and much less 
expensive) African slaves as laborers into the port city.[9] By 1767, slaves 
accounted for more than 62% of the population of the Lower Cape Fear region.[12] 
Many worked in the port as laborers, and some in ship-related trades. Naval 
stores and lumber fueled the region's economy, both before and after the 
American Revolution. During the Revolutionary War, the British maintained 
a garrison at Fort Johnson near Wilmington. Wilmington's commercial importance 
as a major port afforded it a critical role in opposition to the British 
in the years leading up to the Revolution. Additionally, the city was home 
to outspoken political leaders who influenced and led the resistance movement 
in North Carolina. The foremost of these was Wilmington resident Cornelius 
Harnett, who served in the General Assembly at the time, where he rallied 
opposition to the Sugar Act in 1764. When the British Parliament passed 
the Stamp Act the following year, designed to raise revenue for the Crown 
with a kind of tax, Wilmington was the site of an elaborate demonstration 
against it. On October 19, 1765, several hundred townspeople gathered in 
protest of the new law, burned an effigy of one town resident who favored 
the act, and toasted to "Liberty, Property, and No Stamp Duty." On October 
31, another crowd gathered in a symbolic funeral of "Liberty". But before 
the effigy was buried, it was found that Liberty still had a pulse, and 
celebration ensued.[13][14] Dr. William Houston of Duplin County was appointed 
Stamp Receiver for Cape Fear. When Houston visited Wilmington on business, 
still unaware of his appointment, he recounted, "The Inhabitants immediately 
assembled about me & demanded a Categorical Answer whether I intended to 
put the Act relating [to] the Stamps in force. The Town Bell was rung[,] 
Drums [were] beating, Colours [were] flying and [a] great concourse of 
People [were] gathered together." For the sake of his own life, and "to 
quiet the Minds of the inraged [sic] and furious Mobb...," Houston resigned 
his position at the courthouse.[13][15] Governor William Tryon made attempts 
to mitigate the opposition to no avail. On November 18, 1765, he pleaded 
his case directly to prominent residents of the area. They said the law 
restricted their rights. When the stamps arrived on November 28 on the 
H.M. Sloop Diligence, Tryon ordered them to be kept on board. Shipping 
on the Cape Fear River was stopped, as were the functions of the courts.[13] 
Tryon, after having received his official commission as governor (a position 
he had only assumed after the death of Arthur Dobbs), was brought to Wilmington 
by Captain Constantine Phipps on a barge from the Diligence, and "was received 
cordially by the gentlemen of the borough." He was greeted with the firing 
of seventeen pieces of artillery, and the New Hanover County regiment of 
militia who had lined the streets. This "warm welcome" was spoiled, however, 
after a dispute arose between Captain Phipps and captains of ships in the 
harbor regarding the display of their colors. The townspeople became infuriated 
with Phipps and threats were made against both sides. After Tryon harangued 
them for their actions, the townspeople gathered around the barrels of 
punch and ox he had brought as refreshments. The barrels were broken open, 
letting the punch spill into the streets; they threw the head of the ox 
into the pillory, and gave its body to the slaves. Tryon moved his seat 
of government to New Bern instead of Wilmington.[9][16] On February 18, 
1766, two merchant ships arrived at Brunswick Town, without stamped papers. 
Each ship provided signed statements from the collectors at their respective 
ports of origin that there were no stamps available, but Captain Jacob 
Lobb of the British cruiser Viper seized the vessels. In response, numerous 
residents from southern counties met in Wilmington. The group organized 
as the Sons of Liberty and pledged to block implementation of the Stamp 
Act. The following day, as many as a thousand men, including the mayor 
and aldermen of Wilmington, were led by Cornelius Harnett to Brunswick 
to confront Tryon. The governor was unyielding to their defiance but a 
mob retrieved the seized ships. They forced royal customs officers and 
public officials in the region to swear never to issue stamped paper. Parliament 
repealed the Stamp Act in March 1766. In the 1830s, citizens of Wilmington 
became eager to take advantage of railroad transportation. Plans were developed 
to build a railroad line from the capital of Raleigh to Wilmington. This 
was later changed when the citizens of Raleigh did not care to make the 
venture of a stock subscription to secure the railroad. The end point was 
changed to Weldon. When construction of the railroad line was finally completed 
in 1840, it was the longest single line of railroad track in the world. 
The railroad also controlled a line of steamboats that ran from Wilmington 
to Charleston; it was widely used for passenger travel and transportation 
of freight. Regular boat lines served Fayetteville, and packet lines traveled 
to northern ports. The city was a main stop-over point, contributing greatly 
to its commerce.[9] By mid-century, the churchyard of St. James Episcopal 
Church and other town cemeteries had become filled with graves. On November 
16, 1853, a group of citizens, organized as "The Proprietors of the Wilmington 
Cemetery," was formed to develop a new cemetery. Sixty-five acres of land 
around Burnt Mill Creek was chosen as the site for what would be called 
Oakdale Cemetery. It was the first rural cemetery in North Carolina. The 
cemetery's first interment, on February 6, 1855, was six-year-old Annie 
deRosset.[17] Many remains from St. James churchyard were relocated to 
the new cemetery. The Wilmington Gas Light Company was established in 1854. 
Soon after, street lights were powered by gas made from lightwood and rosin, 
replacing the old street oil lamps. On December 27, 1855, the first cornerstone 
was laid and construction began on a new City Hall. A grant from the Thalian 
Association funded the attached opera house, named Thalian Hall. The city 
opened its first public school, named the "Union Free School", in 1857 
on 6th Street between Nun and Church Streets.[18] During the Civil War, 
the port was the major and busiest base for Confederate and privately owned 
blockade runners delivering badly needed supplies from England. It was 
captured by Union forces in the Battle of Wilmington in February 1865, 
approximately one month after the fall of Fort Fisher had closed the port. 
As nearly all the military action took place some distance from the city, 
a number of antebellum houses and other buildings survived the war years. 
The Wilmington Insurrection of 1898 (formerly called a race riot) occurred 
as a result of the racially charged political conflict that had occurred 
in the decades after the Civil War and efforts to establish white supremacy. 
In the 1870s, the Red Shirts, a white paramilitary organization, used violence 
and intimidation to suppress black voting, helping Democrats to regain 
power in the state legislature and end Reconstruction. In 1898, a cadre 
of white Democrats, professionals and businessmen, planned to overthrow 
the city government if their candidates were not elected. Two days after 
the election, more than 1500 white men attacked and burned the only black 
newspaper in the state and ran off the white Republican mayor and aldermen 
(both white and black), overthrowing the legitimately elected municipal 
government. This is the only such coup d'état in United States history.[19] 
On November 10, 1898, nearly 1500 white men, led by the Democrat Alfred 
M. Waddell, an unsuccessful gubernatorial candidate in 1896, marched to 
the offices of the Daily Record, as they had been angered by its publisher 
Alex Manly. The mob broke out of control, shattering windows and setting 
fire to the building. Violence later broke out across town in Brooklyn, 
the black neighborhood that was attacked by mobs of whites. Waddell and 
his men forced the elected Republican city officials to resign at gunpoint 
and replaced them with men selected by leading white Democrats. Waddell 
was elected mayor by the newly seated board of aldermen that day. Prominent 
African Americans and white Republicans were banished from the city in 
the following days.[19] Whites attacked and killed an estimated 10-100 
blacks. No whites died in the violence. As a result of the attacks, more 
than 2100 blacks permanently left the city, leaving a hole among its professional 
and middle class. It became majority white, rather than the majority black 
it was before the white Democrats' coup.[19] Following these events, the 
North Carolina legislature passed a new constitution with voter registration 
requirements for poll taxes and literacy tests that effectively disfranchised 
black voters, following the example of the state of Mississippi. Blacks 
were essentially disfranchised until after Congressional passage of the 
civil rights acts of the mid-1960s.[19] During World War II, Wilmington 
was the home of the North Carolina Shipbuilding Company. The shipyard was 
created as part of the U.S. government's Emergency Shipbuilding Program. 
Workers built 243 ships in Wilmington during the five years the company 
operated. The city was the site of three prisoner-of-war (POW) camps from 
February 1944 through April 1946. At their peak, the camps held 550 German 
prisoners. The first camp was located on the corner of Shipyard Boulevard 
and Carolina Beach Road; it was moved downtown to Ann Street, between 8th 
and 10th avenues, when it outgrew the original location. A smaller contingent 
of prisoners was assigned to a third site, working in the officers' mess 
and doing grounds keeping at Bluethenthal Army Air Base, which is now Wilmington 
International Airport. The Audubon Trolley Station, Brookwood Historic 
District, Carolina Heights Historic District, Carolina Place Historic District, 
City Hall/Thalian Hall, Delgrado School, Federal Building and Courthouse, 
Fort Fisher, Gabriel's Landing, William Hooper School (Former), Market 
Street Mansion District, Masonboro Sound Historic District, Moores Creek 
National Battlefield, Sunset Park Historic District, USS NORTH CAROLINA 
(BB-55) National Historic Landmark, James Walker Nursing School Quarters, 
Westbrook-Ardmore Historic District, Wilmington Historic District, and 
Wilmington National Cemetery are listed on the National Register of Historic 
Places.[20] Wilmington is located at 34°13′24″N 77°54′44″W﻿ / ﻿34.22333°N 
77.91222°W﻿ / 34.22333; -77.91222.[21] It is the Eastern Terminus of a 
major East-West Interstate 40 which ends at Barstow, California, where 
it joins I-15, the Gateway to Southern California, some 2,554 miles away, 
passing through many major cities and state capitals along the way. According 
to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 41.5 square 
miles (107 km2). 41.0 square miles (106 km2) of it is land and 0.5 square 
miles (1.3 km2) of it (1.16%) is water. Wilmington has a humid subtropical 
climate (Köppen Cfa), with the following characteristics: Wilmington boasts 
a large historic district encompassing nearly 300 blocks. Old abandoned 
warehouses on downtown's northern end have been recently demolished making 
room for multi-million dollar projects such as PPD's World Headquarters 
and a state of the art convention center. Downtown/Old Wilmington Between 
2006 and 2008, crime rates, as reported through the Federal Bureau of Investigation's 
Uniform Crime Reports, decreased in 6 of the 8 reported categories. Wilmington 
has an increasing problem with gang violence[27] and on October 15, 2013 
the WPD and NHC Sheriffs department created a joint task force to combat 
gang violence.[28] Just a day later the city council approved $142,000 
in funding for a gang investigative unit.[29] According to 2013 census 
estimates,[33] there were 112,067 people and 47,003 households in the city. 
The population density was 2,067.8 people per square mile (714.2/km²)and 
there were 53,400 housing units. The racial composition of the city was: 
73.5% White, 19.9% Black or African American, 6.1% Hispanic or Latino American, 
1.2% Asian American, 0.5% Native American, 0.1% Native Hawaiian or other 
Pacific Islander. There were 34,359 households out of which 20.4% had children 
under the age of 18 living with them, 33.5% were married couples living 
together, 14.0% had a female householder with no husband present, and 49.5% 
were non-families. 36.6% of all households were made up of individuals 
and 11.3% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The 
average household size was 2.10 and the average family size was 2.77. In 
the city the population was spread out with 18.4% under the age of 18, 
17.2% from 18 to 24, 28.5% from 25 to 44, 20.6% from 45 to 64, and 15.3% 
who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 34 years. For every 
100 females there were 87.5 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, 
there were 85.0 males. The median income for a household in the city was 
$31,099, and the median income for a family was $41,891. Males had a median 
income of $30,803 versus $23,423 for females. The per capita income for 
the city was $21,503. About 13.3% of families and 19.6% of the population 
were below the poverty line, including 25.9% of those under age 18 and 
12.0% of those age 65 or over. Less than half of Wilmington's population 
is religiously affiliated (47.30%), with the majority of practitioners 
being Christian. The largest Christian denomination in Wilmington is Baptist 
(14.66%) followed by Methodist (8.29%) and Roman Catholic (7.42%). There 
is also a significant number of Presbyterians (3.19%), Episcopalians (2.30%), 
Pentecostals (1.45%), and Lutherans (1.32%). Latter-Day Saints make up 
0.90%, and the remaining Christians are affiliated with other Christian 
denominations (7.02%). The second largest religion in Wilmington after 
Christianity is Islam (0.46%), followed by Judaism (0.25%). There is also 
a small percentage of people who practice Eastern religions (0.04%).[34] 
Wilmington is home to some significant historical religious buildings, 
such as the Basilica Shrine of St. Mary and the Temple of Israel. The Wilmington 
International Airport (ILM) serves the area with commercial air service 
provided by American Airlines and Delta Air Lines. American Airlines carries 
a large share of the airport's traffic, and therefore flies the largest 
of the aircraft in and out of the airport. The airport serves over 800,000 
travelers per year. The airport is also home to two fixed-base operations 
(FBO's) which currently house over 100 private aircraft. The airport maintains 
a separate International Terminal providing a full service Federal Inspection 
Station to clear international flights. This includes U.S. Customs and 
Border Protection, U.S. Dept of Agriculture and the U.S. Dept of Immigration. 
The airport is 4 miles from downtown. Public transit in the area is provided 
by the Cape Fear Public Transportation Authority,[35] which operates fixed 
bus routes, shuttles, and a free downtown trolley under the brand name 
Wave Transit. A daily intercity bus service to Raleigh is provided by Greyhound 
Lines. The NC-DOT Cape Fear Run bicycle route connects Apex to Wilmington 
and closely parallels the RUSA 600 km brevet route.[36] The City of Wilmington 
offers transient docking facilities[37] in the center of Downtown Wilmington 
along the Cape Fear River approximately 12.5 miles from the Intracoastal 
Waterway. The river depth in the run up from the ICW is in excess of 40 
feet. Taxicab service is available from several vendors, however, as the 
price of fuel rises, yet the City's Taxi Commission keeps meter rates artificially 
low, there is a real likelihood that no drivers will continue to work, 
as their income, before taxes, now averages 30% of what it was in 1998. 
The Gary Shell Cross City trail is currently under construction. The Gary 
Shell Cross-City Trail is primarily a multi-use trail which will provide 
bicycle and pedestrian access to numerous recreational, cultural and educational 
destinations in Wilmington. The Gary Shell Cross-City Trail will provide 
a future bicycle and pedestrian connection from Wade Park, Halyburton Park 
and Empie Park to the Heide-Trask Drawbridge at the Intracoastal Waterway.[38] 
Wilmington's industrial base includes electrical, medical, electronic and 
telecommunications equipment; clothing and apparel; food processing; paper 
products; nuclear fuel; and pharmaceuticals. Wilmington is part of North 
Carolina's Research coast, adjacent to the Research Triangle Park in Durham, 
NC. Also important to Wilmington's economy is tourism due to its close 
proximity to the ocean and vibrant nightlife. Within Wilmington, discrimination 
against servicemembers of the United States Armed Forces is practiced at 
a number of establishments.[39] Film production has grown to play an important 
role in the city's economy. Wilmington North Carolina was #2 in the Nation 
in a national study for 2007 projected job growth. This list of 25 top 
cities, compiled by the Milken Institute, an Economic "Think Tank" based 
in California, also included the NC cities of Charlotte and Raleigh. Wilmington 
experienced staggering growth in the 1990s, ranking at one point as the 
second fastest growing city in the country, behind only Las Vegas, Nevada. 
Economists have forecast growth in the Greater Wilmington area to be the 
fastest in the state between 2004 and 2010, averaging 7%. Wilmington Ranks 
#32nd in the nation on Forbes Magazine's "Best Places for Business and 
Careers" 2010. Wilmington Ranks #14 in the nation on Fortune Small Business 
Magazine's "Best Places for a Start-Up" Located on the Cape Fear River, 
which flows into the Atlantic Ocean, Wilmington is a sizable seaport, including 
private marine terminals and the North Carolina State Ports Authority's 
Port of Wilmington. Wilmington is home to the Greater Wilmington Chamber 
of Commerce, the oldest Chamber in North Carolina, organized in 1853. Companies 
with their headquarters in Wilmington include Live Oak Bank and HomeInsurance.com. 
According to the City's 2014 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report, the 
top employers in the city are:[40] Public Schools in Wilmington are operated 
by the New Hanover County School System. The city supports a very active 
calendar with its showcase theater, Thalian Hall, hosting about 250 events 
annually. The complex has been in continuous operation since it opened 
in 1858 and houses three performance venues, the Main Stage, the Grand 
Ballroom, and the Studio Theater.[41] The Hannah Block Historic USO/Community 
Arts Center,[42] 120 S. Second Street in historic downtown Wilmington, 
is a multiuse facility owned by the City of Wilmington and managed by the 
Thalian Association,[43] the Official Community Theater of North Carolina.[44] 
Here, five studios are available to nonprofit organizations for theatrical 
performances, rehearsals, musicals, recitals and art classes. For more 
than half a century, the Hannah Block Historic USO Building has facilitated 
the coming together of generations, providing children with programs that 
challenge them creatively, and enhance the quality of life for residents 
throughout the region. The Hannah Block Second Street Stage is home to 
the Thalian Association Children's Theater.[45] It is one of the main attractions 
at the Hannah Block Community Arts Center. The theater seats 200 and is 
a popular performance venue for many community theater groups and other 
entertainment productions. The University of North Carolina at Wilmington 
College of Arts and Science Departments of Theatre, Music and Art share 
a state-of-the-art, $34 million Cultural Arts Building which opened in 
December 2006. The production area consists of a music recital hall, art 
gallery, and two theaters. Sponsored events include 4 theater productions 
a year.[46] The Brooklyn Arts Center at St. Andrews is a 125 year old building 
on the corner of North 4th and Campbell St in downtown Wilmington. The 
Brooklyn Arts Center at Saint Andrews (BAC) is on the National Register 
of Historic Places. The BAC is used for weddings, concerts, fundraisers, 
art shows, vintage flea markets, and other community-driven events.[47] 
Wilmington, otherwise known as Hollywood East, is home to EUE/Screen Gems 
Studios. Popular televisions series' like Sleepy Hollow, Dawson's Creek, 
One Tree Hill and Under The Dome[48] used the stages, and multiple locations 
throughout the city, as well as popular movies like Iron Man 3.[49] Since 
1995, Wilmington hosts an annual, nationally recognized, independent film 
festival, the "Cucalorus".[50] It is the keystone event of The Cucalorus 
Film Foundation, a non-profit organization. The Foundation also sponsors 
weekly screenings, several short documentary projects, and the annual Kids 
Festival, with hands on film-making workshops. The Cape Fear Independent 
Film Network also hosts a film festival annually. Birthplace of Johnson 
Jones Hooper (1815-1862), Author of the Simon Suggs Series. Birthplace 
of Robert Ruark (1915-1965) Chamber Music Wilmington was founded in 1995 
and presents its four-concert "Simply Classical" series every season. The 
concerts are performed by world-class chamber musicians and are held at 
UNC-Wilmington's Beckwith Recital, acoustically designed for intimate music 
performances. The Wilmington Symphony Orchestra was established in 1971 
and offers throughout the year a series of five classical performances, 
and a Free Family Concert.[51] Wilmington is also home to numerous music 
festivals. One of the largest DIY festivals, the Wilmington Exchange Festival, 
occurs over a period of 5 days around Memorial Day each year. It is currently 
in its 13th year.[52] Celebrating its 29th year, the North Carolina Jazz 
Festival is a three-day traditional jazz festival which features world-renowned 
jazz musicians.[53] The Cape Fear Blues Society is a driving force behind 
blues music in Wilmington, N.C. The organization manages, staffs and sponsors 
weekly Cape Fear Blues Jams and the annual Cape Fear Blues Challenge talent 
competition (winners travel to Memphis TN for the International Blues Challenge). 
Its largest endeavor is the Cape Fear Blues Festival, an annual celebration 
that showcases local, regional and national touring blues artists performing 
at a variety of events and venues, including the Cape Fear Blues Cruise, 
Blues Workshops, an All-Day Blues Jam, and numerous live club shows. Membership 
in the CFBS is open to listeners and musicians alike.[54] The Second and 
Orange Street USO Club was erected by the Army Corps of Engineers at a 
cost of $80,000. Along with an identical structure on Nixon Street for 
African-American servicemen, it opened in December 1941, the same month 
that the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor. From 1941 to 1945, the USO hosted 
35,000 uniformed visitors a week. Recently renovated with sensitivity to 
its historic character, the Hannah Block Historic USO (HBHUSO) lobby serves 
as a museum where World War II memorabilia and other artifacts are displayed. 
The building itself was rededicated in Ms. Block's name in 2006 and restored 
to its 1943 wartime character in 2008. The building is listed in the National 
Register of Historic Places. The World War II Wilmington Home Front Heritage 
Coalition,[60] an all volunteer 501(c)(3) preservation organization, is 
the de facto preservationist of the building's history and maintains the 
home front museum. Wilmington is host to many annual festivals, including, 
most notably, the Azalea Festival. The Azalea Festival, sponsored by the 
Cape Fear Garden Club, features a garden tour, historic home tour, musical 
performances, a parade, and a fireworks show. It takes places every year 
in April. The Star-News is Wilmington's daily newspaper; read widely throughout 
the Lower Cape Fear region and now owned by the Halifax Media Group. A 
daily online newspaper, Port City Daily (portcitydaily.com), is owned by 
Local Voice Media. Two historically black newspapers are distributed and 
published weekly: The Wilmington Journal and The Challenger Newspapers. 
Encore Magazine is a weekly arts and entertainment publication. The Wilmington 
television market is ranked 130 in the United States, and is the smallest 
DMA in North Carolina. The broadcast stations are as follows: The region 
is also served by a cable-only affiliate of The CW, WWAY-DT2 (channel 20 
on Time Warner Cable and channel 17 on Charter Communications). Cable news 
station News 14 Carolina also maintains its coastal bureau in Wilmington. 
On September 8, 2008, at 12 noon, WWAY, WECT, WSFX, WILM-LP and W51CW all 
turned off their analog signals, making Wilmington the first market in 
the nation to go digital-only as part of a test by the Federal Communications 
Commission (FCC) to iron out transition and reception concerns before the 
nationwide shutoff. Wilmington was chosen as the test market because the 
area's digital channel positions will remain unchanged after the transition.[61] 
As the area's official conduit of emergency information, WUNJ did not participate 
in the early analog switchoff, and kept their analog signal on until the 
national digital switchover date of June 12, 2009.[62] W47CK did not participate 
due to its low-power status; FCC rules currently exempt low-powered stations 
from the 2009 analog shutdown.[63] WILM-LP and W51CW chose to participate, 
even though they are exempt as LPTV stations.[citation needed] Despite 
Tropical Storm Hanna making landfall southwest of Wilmington two days before 
(September 6), the switchover continued as scheduled. The ceremony was 
marked by governmental and television representatives flipping a large 
switch (marked with the slogan "First in Flight, First in Digital") from 
analog to digital.[64] The Wilmington Sharks are a Coastal Plain League 
(CPL) baseball team in Wilmington that was founded in 1997 and was among 
the charter organizations when the CPL was formed that same year. The roster 
is made up of top collegiate baseball players fine-tuning their skills 
using wood bats to prepare for professional baseball. Their stadium is 
located at Buck Hardee Field at Legion Stadium in Wilmington. The Wilmington 
Sea Dawgs are a Tobacco Road Basketball League (TRBL) team in Wilmington 
that began its inaugural season with the American Basketball Association 
(ABA) in November 2006 and have also played in the Premier Basketball League, 
and the Continental Basketball League. The Wilmington Hammerheads are a 
professional soccer team based in Wilmington. They were founded in 1996 
and played in the United Soccer Leagues Second Division. Their stadium 
was the Legion Stadium. After the 2009 season, the USL discontinued their 
relationship with the franchise owner Chuck Sullivan. The Hammerheads franchise 
returned in 2011. The University of North Carolina Wilmington sponsors 
19 intercollegiate sports and has held Division 1 membership in the NCAA 
since 1977. UNCW competes in the Colonial Athletic Association and has 
been a member since 1984. The University of North Carolina Wilmington is 
also home to the Seamen Ultimate Frisbee team. The team won the National 
Championship in 1993 and most recently qualified for the USA Ultimate College 
Nationals tournament in 2014 The Cape Fear Rugby Football Club is an amateur 
rugby club playing in USA Rugby South Division II. They were founded in 
1974 and hosts the annual Cape Fear Sevens Tournament held over July 4 
weekend; hosting teams from all over the world. They own their own rugby 
pitch located at 21st and Chestnut St.[65] In 1914 the Philadelphia Phillies 
held spring training in Wilmington.[66] Wilmington is a sister city with 
