Win probability added (WPA) is a sport statistic which attempts to measure 
a player's contribution to a win by figuring the factor by which each specific 
play made by that player has altered the outcome of a game.[1] It is used 
for baseball and American football.[2] Some form of win probability has 
been around for about 40 years; however, until computer use became widespread, 
win probability added was often difficult to derive, or imprecise. With 
the aid of Retrosheet, however, win probability added has become substantially 
easier to calculate. The win probability for a specific situation in baseball 
(including the inning, number of outs, men on base, and score) is obtained 
by first finding all the teams that have encountered this situation. Then 
the winning percentage of these teams in these situations is found. This 
probability figure is then adjusted for home-field advantage. Thus win 
probability added is the difference between the win probability when the 
player came to bat and the win probability when the play ended. Some people 
confuse win probability added with win shares,[citation needed] since both 
are baseball statistics that attempt to measure a player's win contribution. 
However, they are quite different. In win shares, a player with 0 win shares 
has contributed nothing to his team; in win probability added, a player 
with 0 win probability added points is average. Also, win shares would 
give the same amount of credit to a player if he hit a lead-off solo home 
run as if he hit a walk-off solo home run; WPA, however, would give vastly 
more credit to the player who hit the walk-off homer. In Game 6 of the 
2011 World Series, St. Louis Cardinals' third-baseman David Freese posted 
the best WPA in Major League Baseball postseason history, with a 0.969, 
which was 0.099 better than the now-second-best WPA of .870, posted by 
the Los Angeles Dodgers' Kirk Gibson in Game 1 of the 1988 World Series. 
The third- and fourth-best WPAs are .854 (by the San Diego Padres' Steve 
Garvey in Game 4 of the 1984 National League Championship Series) and 0.832 
(by the Cardinals' Lance Berkman in Game 6 of the 2011 World Series).[3] 
