Win Shares is a book about baseball written by Bill James and Jim Henzler, 
published by STATS, Inc. in 2002. The book explains how to apply the concept 
of sabermetrics to assess the impact of player performance in a combination 
of several areas, including offensive, defensive, and pitching, to the 
overall performance of their team. The resulting "Win Share" also takes 
into account factors such as the era in which the player was active to 
allow easy comparisons between players from different eras.[1] The book 
focuses primarily on the many formulae involved in computing the final 
number of win shares accumulated, as well as presenting lists of players 
ranked in various ways using the rating. Win shares is the name of the 
metric developed by James in his book. It considers statistics for baseball 
players, in the context of their team and in a sabermetric way, and assigns 
a single number to each player for his contributions for the year. A win 
share represents one-third of a team win, by definition.[2] If a team wins 
80 games in a season, then its players will share 240 win shares. The formula 
for calculating win shares is complicated; it takes up pages 16–100 in 
the book. The general approach is to take the team's win shares (i.e., 
3 times its number of wins), then divide them between offense and defense. 
In baseball, all pitching, hitting and defensive contributions by the player 
are taken into account. Statistics are adjusted for park, league and era. 
On a team with equal offensive and defensive prowess, hitters receive 48% 
of the win shares and those win shares are allocated among the hitters 
based on runs created. An estimation is then made to decide what amount 
of the defensive credit goes to pitchers and what amount goes to fielders. 
Pitching contributions typically receive 35% (or 36%) of the win shares, 
defensive contributions receive 17% (or 16%) of the win shares. The pitching 
contributions are allocated among the pitchers based on runs prevented, 
the pitchers' analogue to runs created. Fielding contributions are allocated 
among the fielders based on a number of assumptions and a selection of 
traditional defensive statistics.[3] In Major League Baseball, based on 
a 162-game schedule, a typical All-Star might amass 20 win shares in a 
season. More than 30 win shares (i.e. the player is directly responsible 
for 10 wins by his team) is indicative of MVP-level performance, and 40+ 
win shares represents an exceptional, historic season. For pitchers, Win 
Shares levels are typically lower—in fact, they often come close to mirroring 
actual wins. Win shares differs from other sabermetric player rating metrics 
such as Total player rating and VORP in that it is based on total team 
wins, not runs above replacement. The Bill James Historical Baseball Abstract, 
2001 edition, also written by James, uses win shares to evaluate the careers 
of many players, and to place them in contexts where they can be compared. 
The two books are effectively companions to one another. Within the sabermetric 
community there is ongoing debate as to the details of the system. The 
Hardball Times has developed its own Win Shares, as well as a number of 
derivative statistics, such as Win Shares Above Bench, Win Shares Percentage, 
Win Shares Above Average, and All Star Win Shares. Writing for ESPN, baseball 
author and columnist Rob Neyer called the book "groundbreaking".[4] Glenn 
Guzzo echoed him in The New Ballgame: Baseball Statistics for the Casual 
Fan, calling it a "groundbreaking volume".[5] Dave Studeman of Hardball 
Times observed that the book was well received by readers.[6] Bill Felber, 
in The Book on the Book: An Inquiry Into Which Strategies in the Modern 
Game Actually Work, compares James' philosophy as to use of relievers in 
the book with those he endorsed as a Boston Red Sox executive.[7] In A 
Mathematician at the Ballpark: Odds and Probabilities for Baseball Fans, 
Professor Ken Ross describes the book as "erudite and interesting".[8] 
The Oakland Tribune notes that it takes James more than 100 pages in the 
book to explain his formula.[9] Leigh Grossman, in The Red Sox Fan Handbook: 
Everything You Need to Know to Be a Red Sox Fan Or to Marry One, called 
it "a book that statheads had been anticipating for years."[10] The Concord 
Monitor noted that at a game "a few ultradedicated fans even sit in the 
back row with their Bill James books and calculators tabulating Mainers 
win shares".[11] In Practicing Sabermetrics: Putting the Science of Baseball 
Statistics to Work, by Gabriel B. Costa, Michael R. Huber, and John T. 
Saccoman, the authors discuss how James provides both a short form method 
and a long form method for calculation in his book, and that the easier 
short form method appears to work well for years after 1920.[12] Win shares 
