Windsor is a town in Hartford County, Connecticut, United States, and was 
the first English settlement in the state. It lies on the northern border 
of Connecticut's capital, Hartford. The population of Windsor was 29,044 
at the 2010 census.[2] Poquonock is a northern area of Windsor that has 
its own zip code (06064) for post-office box purposes.[3] Other unincorporated 
areas in Windsor include Rainbow and Hayden Station in the north, and Wilson 
and Deerfield in the south. The Day Hill Road area is known as Windsor's 
Corporate Area, although other centers of business include New England 
Tradeport, Kennedy Industry Park and Kennedy Business Park, all near Bradley 
International Airport and the Addison Road Industrial Park. The coastal 
areas and riverways were traditional areas of settlement by various cultures 
of indigenous peoples, who had been in the region for thousands of years. 
They relied on the rivers for fishing, water and transportation. Before 
European contact, the historic Pequot and Mohegan tribes had been one Algonquian-speaking 
people. After they separated, they became competitors and traditional enemies 
in the Connecticut region. During the first part of the 17th century, the 
Pequot and Mohegan nations had been at war. The Podunk were forced to pay 
tribute to the more powerful Pequot, who claimed their land. Eventually, 
the Podunk invited a small party of settlers from Plymouth, Massachusetts, 
to settle as a mediating force between the other tribes. In exchange they 
granted them a plot of land at the confluence of the Farmington River and 
the west side of the Connecticut River. After Edward Winslow came from 
Plymouth to inspect the land, William Holmes led a small party, arriving 
at the site on September 26, 1633, where they founded a trading post.[4] 
Native Americans referred to the area as Matianuck. It was about 50 miles 
(80 km) up river from Long Island Sound, at the end of waters navigable 
by ship and above the Dutch fort at Hartford, offering an advantageous 
location for the English to trade with the Indians before they reached 
the Dutch. (The Sicaog tribe had made a similar offer to mediate to the 
Dutch in New Amsterdam. New Netherland had far fewer European settlers 
than New England, and they were not in a position to take up the opportunity.) 
In 1634, a party of around 30 people, sponsored by Sir Richard Saltonstall, 
and led by the Stiles brothers, Francis, John and Henry, settled in the 
Windsor area. Governor John Winthrop of the Massachusetts Bay Company acknowledged 
in a letter to Saltonstall that the Stiles party was the second group to 
settle Connecticut. In 1635, 60 or more people, led by the Reverends John 
Maverick and John Warham, arrived, having trekked overland from Dorchester, 
Massachusetts. They had arrived in the New World five years earlier on 
the ship Mary and John from Plymouth, England, and settled in Dorchester.[5] 
Reverend Warham promptly renamed the Connecticut settlement "Dorchester". 
During the next few years, more settlers arrived from Dorchester, outnumbering 
and soon displacing the original Plymouth contingent, who mostly returned 
to Plymouth. In 1637, the colony's General Court changed the name of the 
settlement from Dorchester to Windsor,[6] named after the town of Windsor, 
Berkshire, on the River Thames in England. Several towns that border Windsor 
were once entirely or partially part of Windsor, including Windsor Locks, 
South Windsor, East Windsor, Ellington (which was later part of East Windsor), 
and Bloomfield (originally called "Wintonbury", a composite of the town 
names Windsor, Farmington and Simsbury).[7] The first "highway" in the 
Connecticut Colony opened in 1638 between Windsor and Hartford. Two years 
later, the highway was extended north to the colony's 1636 settlement at 
Springfield, and thus the three settlements that came to dominate the region 
for much of colonial history were connected. In 1648, an event took place 
that would forever change the boundaries of the Connecticut River Valley. 
During a grain famine, the founder of Springfield, William Pynchon,[8] 
was given authority by Windsor and Hartford to negotiate a price for grain 
for the three settlements with the natives. First, the natives refused 
to sell grain at the usual market price, and then refused to sell it at 
"a reasonable price". Pynchon refused to buy it, attempting to teach the 
natives a peaceful lesson about integrity and reliability. Windsor's cattle 
were starving, however, and the citizens of Hartford were furious. With 
Windsor's consent, Hartford commissioned the famous Indian fighter John 
Mason to travel to Springfield with "money in one hand and a sword in the 
other" to threaten the natives, and thereby force the grain trade. The 
natives capitulated and ultimately sold their grain. After "negotiating 
the trade", Mason refused to share the grain with Springfield, and, to 
add further insult, insisted that Springfield pay a tax when sailing ships 
passed Windsor. Outraged, Springfield forever sided with the Massachusetts 
Bay Colony, a faraway theocracy based in Boston, rather than with the Connecticut 
Colony, which was much closer geographically and far more compatible ideologically. 
Windsor played a neutral role in the colonial rivalry between Hartford 
and Springfield; however, Windsor's direct border with both settlements 
caused many discussions about whether to align with Massachusetts or Connecticut. 
Ultimately, Windsor sided with Connecticut.[9][10] The Hartford & Springfield 
Street Railway, a trolley, connected with the Connecticut Company in Windsor 
Center until 1925. Buses replaced trolleys between Rainbow (a northern 
section of Windsor) and Windsor Center in 1930. Trolley cars continued 
to run from Windsor to Hartford until 1940.[11] The original Windsor settlers 
have many descendants around the country and beyond. Many are members of 
the Descendants of the Founders of Ancient Windsor (DFAW). The Joseph Kesselring 
stage play and Frank Capra movie Arsenic and Old Lace was inspired by actual 
events that took place in a three-story brick house on Prospect Street, 
just off the north end of the Windsor green. Sixty men died between 1907 
and 1917 while in the care of Amy Archer-Gilligan. Most were proven to 
be victims of arsenic poisoning. On historic Palisado Avenue, one can find 
the First Church in Windsor, Congregational, and adjacent graveyard.[12] 
Across the street on the Palisado Green stands a statue of John Mason, 
a founder of Windsor and a colonial leader in the Pequot War. The historic 
plaque also honors Robert Seeley, Mason's second-in-command. Nearby stands 
Windsor's oldest structure, the Capt. John Fyler house, built in 1640. 
Further north is the home of Oliver Ellsworth, third Chief Justice of the 
United States.[13] The town center is well-planned in comparison to many 
others in the Greater Hartford area. It has a relative diversity of chains 
and local shops, as well as a restored Amtrak train station dating to the 
1850s. The Vintage Radio and Communications Museum of Connecticut is located 
in Windsor.[14] Windsor is home to the following locations on the National 
Register of Historic Places:[16] Tobacco farming in Connecticut has a long 
history. When the first settlers came to the valley in the 1630s, tobacco 
was already being grown by the native population. By 1700 it was being 
exported via the Connecticut River to European ports. The use of Connecticut 
tobacco as a cigar wrapper leaf began in the 1820s.[18] Area farmers grew 
tobacco for the two outside layers of cigars, the binder and the wrapper. 
Approximately 34,000 acres (140 km2) of land in Connecticut is covered 
by Windsor Soil, named after the town.[19] The movie Parrish, starring 
Troy Donahue and Karl Malden, was set and filmed in the tobacco farms of 
Windsor. The film was released in 1961. The Connecticut Valley Tobacco 
Museum,[20] containing authentic farming implements and tools, can be found 
at Northwest Park in Windsor.[21] The public schools in Windsor are a part 
of the Windsor Public Schools: There are two public libraries: Windsor 
Public Library[23] and Wilson Public Library. Loomis Chaffee, the well-known 
college preparatory school, is located in Windsor, on a 320-acre (130 ha) 
campus at the confluence of the Connecticut and Farmington rivers. The 
original Loomis Homestead, built by Joseph Loomis in 1640 and one of the 
oldest buildings in the United States, stands on the school's campus across 
the street from the current school head's residence. Madina Academy, Connecticut's 
first full-time Islamic School, offers preschool through 12th grade [24] 
Saint Gabriel's School is a private school that teaches kindergarten through 
eighth grade.[25] Trinity Christian School is a private school that teaches 
kindergarten through seventh grade.[26][27] Praise, Power, Prayer Christian 
School is a private school that teaches kindergarten through twelfth grade.[28][29] 
Branford Hall Career Institute[30] and Baran Institute of Technology[31] 
are located on Day Hill Road. Windsor Meadows State Park is in the southeast 
corner of town[32] and runs along the shore of the Connecticut River. Keney 
Park, in the south, straddles Windsor and Hartford; it includes cricket 
fields and a golf course.[33] Northwest Park, Windsor's largest park, is 
located in the northwest corner of Windsor. It includes a nature center, 
trails and an animal barn showcasing a burro, sheep, chickens, goats, rabbits, 
ducks, and a turkey.[34] Welch Park is in the neighborhood of Poquonock 
on the Farmington River and is home to a public pool, numerous baseball 
diamonds, and a small playground. Stroh Park is off Route 159 near Wilson 
Congregational Church towards the south end of town. It is home to a public 
pool, tennis courts, a playground, and a pond. Strawberry Hills Park is 
located on River Street. It is a popular location in the summer months 
for those interested in canoeing and kayaking the Farmington River. The 
Northwest Park Country Fair is held every fall.[35] The Shad Derby Festival 
is held every spring in the town center.[36] According to Windsor's 2011 
Comprehensive Annual Financial Report,[44] the top employers in the city 
were: Windsor's highest point is on Day Hill at 230 feet (70 m) above sea 
level.[47] Windsor's lowest point is on the Connecticut River at 5 feet 
(1.5 m) above sea level. [47] The Connecticut River defines Windsor's east 
border. The city of Hartford, the capital of Connecticut, is adjacent to 
Windsor to the south. The town of Windsor Locks, home of Bradley International 
Airport, is adjacent to Windsor to the north. Prior to its incorporation 
in 1854, it was known as the Pine Meadow section of Windsor. The towns 
of East Windsor and South Windsor are on the east side of the Connecticut 
River. The town of Bloomfield is to the west. The town of East Granby is 
to the northwest. The Farmington River joins the Connecticut River in Windsor. 
The Farmington River is dammed in the northwest corner of Windsor to form 
the 234-acre (0.95 km2) Rainbow Reservoir.[48] As of the census of 2010, 
there were 29,044 people, 11,233 households, and 7,881 families residing 
in the town. The population density was 984.5 persons per square mile (380.2/km²). 
There were 11,767 housing units at an average density of 398.9 per square 
mile (154.0/km²). The racial makeup of the town was 54.7% White, 34.3% 
African American, 0.2% Native American, 4.5% Asian, 0.01% Pacific Islander, 
3.1% some other race, and 3.2% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino 
of any race were 8.4% of the population.[52] There were 11,233 households, 
out of which 28.1% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 50.9% 
were headed by married couples living together, 14.9% had a female householder 
with no husband present, and 29.8% were non-families. 24.1% of all households 
were made up of individuals, and 8.8% were someone living alone who was 
65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.54 and the average 
family size was 3.04.[52] In the town the population was spread out with 
21.5% under the age of 18, 7.4% from 18 to 24, 23.9% from 25 to 44, 31.8% 
from 45 to 64, and 15.3% who were 65 years of age or older. The median 
age was 43.1 years. For every 100 females there were 90.9 males. For every 
100 females age 18 and over, there were 87.8 males.[52] According to the 
U.S. Census Bureau's American Community Survey, for the period 2009-2011, 
median income for a household in the town was $78,211, and median income 
for a family was $89,726. Male full-time year-round workers had a median 
income of $58,668 versus $50,529 for females. The per capita income for 
the town was $34,899. About 3.1% of families and 4.5% of the population 
were below the poverty line, including 6.0% of those under age 18 and 4.8% 
of those age 65 or over.[53] Windsor was one of a handful of towns in the 
country where, in the 2000 United States Census, median income for black 
households ($64,159) was larger than white households ($63,624). Asian 
households had a median income of $75,716. Hispanic or Latino (of any race) 
households have a median income of $69,808.[54] Windsor High School has 
1,471 students enrolled. Demographics for 2004–2005 were: Connecticut House 
of Representatives: Connecticut Senate: United States House of Representatives: 
Minor party registrations in Windsor include Green, Libertarian, and Working 
