The Windy City ThunderBolts are a professional baseball team based in the 
Chicago suburb of Crestwood, Illinois, in the United States. The ThunderBolts 
are a member of the Frontier League,[1] which is not affiliated with Major 
League Baseball. From the 1999 season to the present, the ThunderBolts 
have played their home games at Standard Bank Stadium. The franchise known 
as the Windy City ThunderBolts started as the Will County Claws in 1995 
and called their home at Lewis University’s Brennan Field in Romeoville, 
Illinois. The Claws played in the struggling North Central League which 
started in 1994 with six teams, but only fielded four in 1995. The North 
Central League folded 18 games into its second season with the Claws finishing 
at 8–10. In 1996, the Will County Cheetahs joined the new four-team Heartland 
League. In the winter of 1997, the Cheetahs and the city of Crestwood, 
Illinois, made a deal for Crestwood to build and own a brand new, state-of-the-art 
ballpark for the Cheetahs. Despite the high hopes for baseball in Crestwood 
for the 1998 season, it was quickly obvious that because of construction 
delays, the new park would not be ready. The Cheetahs needed a home field 
and with Romeoville not an option, neighboring Midlothian would be the 
solution to the Cheetahs’ home field problem as they would play their 1998 
season at tiny Howie Minas Field. In Midlothian, the Cheetahs would have 
one of their best seasons finishing in 2nd place with a 37–29 record in 
the first half and earn a playoff spot for the first time in franchise 
history. In the Heartland League Championship, the Cheetahs would sweep 
the heavily favored Tennessee Tomahawks 2 games to 0 to gain the franchises 
first title. The Heartland League started the 1998 season with six teams 
and finished with only four teams. The Cheetahs, now known as the Cook 
County Cheetahs, won the last ever Heartland League Championship as the 
league folded after three seasons. In 1999, the Cheetahs joined the stable 
Frontier League and have been members since. The team changed their name 
to the current Windy City ThunderBolts. An ownership change instigated 
the name change. On August 26, 2007, the ThunderBolts won their first Central 
Division title. On September 17, 2007, they defeated the Washington Wild 
Things to win the Frontier League championship, three games to two. In 
2008, they repeated a Division Title as the West Division Champions and 
Frontier League champions, defeating the Kalamazoo Kings three games to 
none in the championship series. (Note: After heavy rains flooded Homer 
Stryker Field the entire 2008 Championship series was played at the Thunderbolts 
Standard Bank Stadium.) They thus became only the second Frontier League 
team to win back-to-back titles, joining the 2001–02 Richmond Roosters. 
The San Diego Padres bought the rights to Cheetahs' pitcher Chris Oxspring 
in 2000. He became the first player in franchise history to play in Major 
League Baseball. He played in five games for the Padres in 2005. In 2011, 
Dylan Axelrod became the first former ThunderBolt and second player in 
franchise history to play in MLB, having been called up by the Chicago 
White Sox. On August 28, 2012, Tyson Corley threw the second no-hitter 
in ThunderBolts history. Isaac Hess threw the first on August 5, 2008. 
Pitcher Andrew Werner became the third player in club history to make it 
to the majors when he started for the San Diego Padres in 2012. Frontier 
League Championship Series: Defeated the Washington Wild Things 3–2. Frontier 
League Championship Series: Defeated the Kalamazoo Kings 3–0. Pitchers 
Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches Disabled list ‡ Inactive 
