In sports, a winning percentage is the fraction of games or matches a team 
or individual has won. It is defined as wins divided by the total number 
of matches played (i.e. wins plus losses). A draw counts as a ½ loss and 
a ½ win. Winning percentage is one way to compare the record of two teams; 
however, another standard method most frequently used in baseball and professional 
basketball standings is games behind. For example, if a team's season record 
is 30 wins and 20 losses, the winning percentage would be .600. If a team's 
season record is 30–15–5 (i.e. it has won thirty games, lost fifteen and 
tied five times), the five tie games are counted as 2½ wins and 2½ losses, 
and so the team has an adjusted record of 32½ wins and 17½ losses, resulting 
in a .650 winning percentage. In leagues in which points are awarded for 
overtime losses, it is possible for a team to have a winning percentage 
above .500 (50%) despite losing more than half of the games it has played. 
In baseball, a pitcher is assessed wins and losses as an individual statistic 
and thus has his own winning percentage, based on his win–loss record. 
In North America, winning percentages are expressed to three digits and 
read as whole numbers (e.g. 1.000, "a thousand" or .500, "five hundred"). 
In this case, the name "winning percentage" is actually a misnomer, since 
it is not expressed as a percentage. A winning percentage such as .536 
("five thirty-six") expressed as a percentage would be 53.6%. However, 
in soccer, a manager's abilities may be measured by win percentage. In 
this case, the formula is wins divided by total number of matches; draws 
are not considered as "half-wins", and the quotient is always in percentage 
form. Some leagues and competitions may instead use a points percentage 
system, changing the nature of this statistic. In this type of method, 
used in many group tournament ranking systems, the competitors are awarded 
a certain number of points per win, fewer points per tie, and none for 
a loss. The teams are then ranked by the total number of these accumulated 
points. One such method is the "three points for a win", where three points 
are awarded for winning a game, one point is awarded for a draw, and no 
points are awarded for a loss. The National Hockey League (which uses an 
overtime and shootouts to break all ties) awards two points for a win in 
regulation or overtime/shootout, one point for an overtime loss, and none 
for a regulation loss.[1][2] In the National Hockey League, teams are awarded 
two points for a win, and one point for either a tie (a discontinued statistic) 
