The Town of Winthrop is a city in Suffolk County, Massachusetts, United 
States. The population was 17,497 at the 2010 census. Winthrop is an ocean-side 
suburban community in Greater Boston situated at the north entrance to 
Boston Harbor, close to Logan International Airport. It is located on a 
peninsula, 1.6 square miles (4.2 km2) in area, connected to Revere by a 
narrow isthmus and to East Boston by a bridge over the harbor inlet to 
the Belle Isle Marsh Reservation. Settled in 1630, Winthrop is one of the 
oldest communities in the United States. It is also one of the smallest 
and most densely populated municipalities in Massachusetts. It is one of 
the four cities in Suffolk County (the others are Boston, Revere, and Chelsea). 
It is the southernmost part of the North Shore, with a 7-mile (11 km) shoreline 
that provides views of the Atlantic Ocean to the east and of the Boston 
skyline to the west. In 2005, the Town of Winthrop voted to change its 
governance from a representative town meeting adopted in 1920 to a council-manager 
form of government. Under Massachusetts law, as of 2006 when the new Town 
Charter took effect, Winthrop became a city. However, it is one of 14 cities 
in Massachusetts that choose to remain known as a 'town.'[1] It is therefore 
referred to as a 'town' in this article. Winthrop was settled in 1630 by 
English Puritan colonists as Pullen Poynt (Pulling Point), so named because 
the tides made hard pulling for boatmen.[2] [3] The present town is named 
after John Winthrop (1587–1649), second governor of the Massachusetts Bay 
Colony and an English Puritan leader. On April 8, 1630, Winthrop departed 
from the Isle of Wight, England on the ship Arbella, arriving in Salem 
in June where he was met by John Endecott, the first governor of the colony. 
John Winthrop served as governor for twelve of the colony's first twenty 
years of existence. It was he who decided to base the colony at the Shawmut 
Peninsula, where he and other colonists founded what is now the City of 
Boston. Originally part of an area called Winnisimmet by the native Massachusett 
tribe,[4] Pullen Poynt was annexed by the Town of Boston in 1632 and was 
used as a grazing area. In 1637, it was divided into fifteen parcels of 
land that were given by Governor Winthrop to prominent men in Boston with 
the stipulation that each must erect a building on his land within two 
years. Few, if any, of these men ever lived on these parcels of land, but 
their farms prospered. One of these early houses, the Deane Winthrop House, 
was the home of Governor Winthrop’s youngest son, Deane Winthrop, who lived 
there until his death in 1704. This house is still standing and is also 
the oldest continually occupied home in the United States. Although occupied, 
it is also open to the public at select times. The house is maintained 
by the Winthrop Improvement and Historical Association.[5] In 1739, what 
is now Chelsea, Revere, and Winthrop, withdrew from Boston due to governmental 
control disputes and became the Town of Chelsea. In 1775, residents of 
the Town of Chelsea played a key role in the Battle of Chelsea Creek of 
the American Revolutionary War.[6] Again, the desire for more local control 
resulted in Revere and Winthrop seceding from Chelsea in 1846 to become 
North Chelsea. Shortly thereafter, in 1852, Winthrop was incorporated as 
a town in its own right with a Board of Selectmen and Open Town Meeting 
form of government. In 1920, Winthrop was the second town in the Commonwealth 
of Massachusetts to apply for and receive a Charter for a Representative 
Town Meeting, which continued to 2006. As noted above, Winthrop adopted 
a home rule charter in 2005 with a council-manager form of government[7][8] 
and is no longer governed by a representative town meeting. It is now legally 
a city, but chooses to be known as a town that has a city form of government.[9][10] 
The new Town Charter, which took effect in 2006, was passed in a special 
election. The Board of Selectmen and Town Meeting were abolished, and legislative 
powers were vested in an elected Town Council. Executive power, largely 
ceremonial, resides in the Council President, who is popularly elected. 
An appointed Town Manager serves as the head of administrative services. 
According to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area 
of 8.3 square miles (21.5 km²), of which 2.0 square miles (5.2 km²) is 
land and 6.3 square miles (16.3 km²) (76.02%) is water. However, according 
to the Town Government, Winthrop has a land area of just 1.6 square miles 
(4.1 km2). Winthrop is connected by land skirting the Belle Isle Marsh 
Reservation, which is shared across the Belle Isle Inlet with East Boston. 
The town was originally separated from Deer Island. Although still an island 
by name, Deer Island has been connected to Winthrop since the former Shirley 
Gut channel, which once separated the island from the town, was filled 
in by the New England Hurricane of 1938. The town is considered the northern 
dividing line between Boston Harbor to its west and Massachusetts Bay to 
its east. The town is divided into several neighborhoods with a central 
downtown area, including Court Park and Cottage Park along the Boston Harbor 
side of town, and Point Shirley, Cottage Hill, Winthrop Beach, Ocean Spray, 
and Winthrop Highlands on the Massachusetts Bay side. The town is bordered 
by Revere to the north, and Boston on the northwest, west, and southeast. 
The water rights of the town extend to the edge of the county, and border 
those of Nahant in Essex County. As a result of the expansion of Logan 
International Airport, part of four of the runways (4L/22R, 4R/22L, 15R/33L, 
and most of 15L/33R) lies within what was once the water rights of the 
town. By land, Winthrop is 5.5 miles (8.9 km) from Beacon Hill, the measuring 
point for all road signs in Massachusetts. Deer Island, though within the 
city limits of Boston, is located in Winthrop Bay. It ceased to be an island 
in the 1930s when Shirley Gut, which separated it from Winthrop, was filled 
in. The island has a sordid past as an internment camp for Native Americans 
during King Philip's War, a quarantine station where many immigrants died, 
and the site of a county jail. Today, the island is home to the mammoth 
Deer Island Waste Water Treatment Plant, which provides sewage treatment 
for the Boston area.[11] In spite of the presence of the water treatment 
plant, Deer Island has been part of the Boston Harbor Islands National 
Recreation Area since 1996 and the remainder of the island consists of 
park land and offers walking, jogging, sightseeing, picnicking, and fishing. 
Part of the park land consists of a man-made earthen berm that partly conceals 
the treatment plant from view from Winthrop. The island is now popular 
with many Winthrop residents due to the effective park landscaping and 
spectacular views of Boston Harbor and the Atlantic Ocean. Massachusetts 
Route 145 passes through the town as its only state route and the only 
connection to the mainland (via Main Street and Winthrop Parkway at opposite 
ends of town). It enters from the Orient Heights neighborhood of East Boston 
then passes in a loop around the main body of the town (bypassing Cottage 
Hill and Point Shirley) before leaving the town to the north, turning into 
the Winthrop Parkway in Revere. Two bus routes are provided by Paul Revere 
Transportation, which run from Point Shirley through the highlands and 
center of the town and terminate at Orient Heights. Paul Revere Transportation 
has operated the bus service in town since 1991. The service, which is 
subsidized by the MBTA, operates as Route 712 Point Shirley or Winthrop 
Beach to Orient Heights Station via Winthrop Highlands and Route 713 Point 
Shirley or Winthrop Beach to Orient Heights via Winthrop Center.[12] This 
service does not accept MBTA Charlie Cards. Prior to this, the service 
was operated by Rapid Transit, which began bus service in Winthrop on January 
28, 1940, the day immediately following the closure of the Boston, Revere 
Beach and Lynn Railroad (known as the "Narrow Gauge") which had a Winthrop 
Branch (1877-1940) with nine stations. The Blue Line of the MBTA subway 
system crosses near the town, with stops at Orient Heights Station, Suffolk 
Downs Station, and Beachmont Station, all of which are just a half mile 
from the city limits. A water transportation dock is located at the public 
landing and provides ferry service across Boston Harbor. Currently, Boston 
Harbor Cruises operates the service seasonally (May through October) between 
Winthrop and Rowes Wharf.[13] As of the census[24] of 2000, there were 
18,303 people, 7,843 households, and 4,580 families residing in the town. 
The population density was 9,208 people per square mile (3,551.2/km²). 
There were 8,067 housing units at an average density of 4,058.5 per square 
mile (1,565.2/km²). The racial makeup of the town was 94.44% White, 1.68% 
Black, 1.15% Asian, 0.16% Native American, 0.04% Pacific Islander, 1.36% 
from other races, and 1.16% of two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of 
any race comprised 2.69% of the population. There were 7,843 households 
of which 23.6% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 43.1% 
were married couples living together, 11.5% had a female householder with 
no husband present, and 41.6% were non-families. 32.5% of all households 
were made up of individuals and 11.9% had someone living alone who was 
65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.3 and the average 
family size was 2.98. In the town the population was spread out with 18.6% 
under the age of 18, 7.3% from 18 to 24, 33.2% from 25 to 44, 24.4% from 
45 to 64, and 16.5% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 
40 years. For every 100 females, there were 88.8 males. For every 100 females 
age 18 and over, there were 86.3 males. The median income for a household 
in the town was $53,122, and the median income for a family was $65,696. 
Males had a median income of $42,135 versus $36,298 for females. The per 
capita income for the town was $27,374. About 3.3% of families and 5.5% 
of the population were below the poverty line, including 4.1% of those 
under age 18 and 8.0% of those age 65 or over. Winthrop has a town center 
with a number of businesses, including Ace Hardware, CVS Pharmacy, a small 
grocery store called the Winthrop Marketplace, and the United States Postal 
Service. By the mid-1990s, large shopping malls in the nearby North Shore 
region of Massachusetts, especially Square One Mall in Saugus, began to 
drain small businesses though a strong small business community still prevails. 
Located on Great Head (Water Tower Hill) is the Winthrop Water Tower. It 
is a red, white, and blue striped water tower capable of holding 1 million 
US gallons (3,800 m3) of water. It is maintained by Winthrop's Water Department.[25] 
The town is divided into four unique business areas: the Shirley Street 
Business District, the Highlands District, the Center, and Magee's Corner 
District. Winthrop has a weekly newspaper, the Winthrop Sun Transcript, 
which reports local news, current events, happenings, and town concerns. 
Winthrop currently has four schools: Winthrop has various places of worship 
for varying denominations. They include: The majority of Winthrop residents 
are adherents of various Christian denominations, such as Roman Catholicism, 
Methodism, and Episcopalianism. Adherents of Judaism make up a small, but 
historically significant, minority. Over the past four decades, the once 
large Jewish community has dwindled due to frequent migration to other 
parts of Massachusetts. Winthrop has numerous beaches due to its geographic 
location, surrounded by water. There are two major beaches, Winthrop Beach 
and Yirrell Beach. Others include Donovan's Beach, Halford Beach, Pico 
Beach, Point Shirley Beach, and Short Beach. Winthrop is home to two historic 
military forts, Fort Banks and Fort Heath. Fort Banks was a United States 
Coast Artillery fort, which served to defend Boston Harbor from enemy attack 
from the sea and was built in the 1890s during what is known as the Endicott 
period, a time in which the coast defenses of the United States were seriously 
expanded and upgraded with new technology. Fort Heath was built in 1898 
also as a Coast Artillery fort. It is now replaced with the Fort Heath 
Apartment building, Seal Harbor condominia, and a small park on the bluff 
overlooking the Atlantic Ocean and Revere Beach. Winthrop has five places 
on the National Register of Historic Places. Deane Winthrop House Edward 
B. Newton School Fort Banks Mortar Battery Winthrop Center/Metcalf Square 
Historic District Winthrop Shore Drive Among numerous baseball fields and 
recreational parks, Winthrop's recreational facilities include Larsen Rink, 
an indoor ice skating rink, and Winthrop Golf Course, a private 9-hole, 
par 35 golf course. See also Category:People from Winthrop, Massachusetts. 
