WIPR-TV is a non-commercial educational, full-power public television station 
located in San Juan, Puerto Rico, transmitting over analog channel 6, digital 
43. The station is owned and operated by Corporación de Puerto Rico para 
la Difusión Pública (English: Puerto Rico Corporation for Public Broadcasting). 
Most of its television shows on the main channel are local programming. 
Because of its audience, much of WIPR's programming is in Spanish, as with 
most Puerto Rico television stations. The station is branded as WIPR Television. 
Previously, the station was branded as Teve 6 / Teve 3, TUTV - Tu Universo 
Televisión and Puerto Rico TV. WIPR-TV operates a semi-satellite on the 
island's west coast, WIPM-TV, channel 3 in Mayagüez. WIPM-TV largely repeats 
WIPR, but does produce some local programming. WIPM-TV transmits its digital 
signal on channel 35, virtual 3. WIPR-TV was created as a result of lobbying 
for public broadcasting in Puerto Rico, beginning in the 1950s. The station 
went on the air for the first time on Three Kings Day (January 6), 1958 
becoming the first educational television station in Latin America, and 
the facilities (the building) was dedicated to Ramón Rivero (Diplo), the 
most important and influential actor/comedian in the history of Puerto 
Rico. It was also unique among other government-controlled broadcasters 
in the Caribbean as it did not show commercials. All other government-controlled 
broadcasters (with the exception of Cuba and the US Virgin Islands) showed 
advertising. The station was one of the few TV stations in Puerto Rico 
with English-language programming, via a membership with PBS that allowed 
them to carry PBS Kids in English. This ended on July 1, 2011 after WIPR 
and PBS failed to reach an agreement to renew the station's membership, 
with money previously allocated to PBS membership dues being invested in 
the station's local programming. PBS programming remains available on Puerto 
Rico via WMTJ.[1] In 1996, WIPR-TV was the first Puerto Rican television 
station that used streaming media to broadcast programming to the internet. 
On December 3, 2015, WIPR-TV, along with WAPA-TV went off-air, due to the 
failure of its shared transmission line at Cerro La Santa in Cayey. This 
station is still watchable on Liberty Channel 6, Choice Channel 3, Dish 
Network Channel 6, DIRECTV Channel 166 & Claro TV Channel 6. Station was 
repaired and placed back on air on Tuesday December 8, 2015. Repairs were 
made by WAPA and WIPR Engineering Departments. In 2012, the Federal Communications 
Commission announced they were going to hold a voluntary Incentive Auction 
for a portion of the radio frequency spectrum that is currently used by 
Digital Television broadcasters across the country. WIPR-TV & WIPM-TV announced 
they would participate in the auction, since it was estimated the stations 
would net somewhere in the range of between $274 & $204 Million USD, much 
more than it would be worth on the open market otherwise. Since that time 
the auction estimate has increased to somewhere between $203 & $153 Million 
USD, with the auction currently scheduled to take place in early 2016. 
The channel celebrated their 50th anniversary by producing a documentary 
focusing on their history.[2] On July 1, 2008, TuTv renewed 150 contracts.[3] 
In 2008, Puerto Rico's Public Broadcasting Station, WIPR-TV, celebrated 
its 50 years of broadcasting with a documentary that relived some of the 
best and worst moments in its history. The documentary "50 Años WIPR-Televisión", 
(50 Years of WIPR Television) is about 70 minutes long and reviews some 
of the news, entertainment programming, music and sports events that the 
station has presented during half a century. WIPR-TV, today better known 
as the Puerto Rico's Public Broadcasting Corporation (CPRDP), or its branding, 
TUTV or Tu Universo Televisión, was inaugurated on January 6, 1958 under 
the administration of the then-current governor, Luis Muñoz Marín. The 
documentary was dedicated to the actor, director and historian Ángel Rivera 
Vázquez, who had worked in WIPR since its beginning. Spearheaded by Investigator 
Flavia García, who had been working for the previous 9 years on an investigation 
of the history of television, headed the production of this special along 
with Luis Rosario Albert and Susanne Marte. The Corporation's President, 
Víctor J. Montilla, received a congratulatory resolution on behalf of the 
Puerto Rican Senate for the "good music, art and television" that have 
distinguished the channel for the past five decades. Some of the historical 
moments aired include: WIPR-TV, the island's first public television station, 
also became the first in the evolution to digital and high definition.[4] 
.On July 7, 2008, President Víctor J. Montilla (now, Executive VP & general 
manager Of New Channels at WORA-TV) held a press conference at the station, 
where he inaugurated WIPR-TV's high definition facilities. TUTV became 
the first station in Puerto Rico to produce and broadcast in high definition 
format.[5] The station upgraded its lighting and built new sets as part 
of the transition.[6] Some artists underwent lifestyle changes, including 
changes in their diet, to look better in high definition.[6] The first 
program to be transmitted in this format was "Contigo".[7] The digital 
signals of WIPR and WIPM are multiplexed: Digital channels Until 2011 when 
WIPR dropped its PBS membership, WIPR's Kids programming was English language 
PBS Kids programming, but their V-me channel carries some PBS and American 
Public Television programs, but in Spanish. Archivo WIPR is a classics 
and historic Puerto Rico programmed subchannel.[1] WIPR-TV for years has 
shown local programming, educational, children and human interest shows. 
Current weekday programs: Weekend programs: Upcoming programming: In the 
1980s the station had a highly praised newscast called "Panorama Mundial" 
(World View), hosted by Doris Torres. In 1996, WIPR launched a newscast 
branded as Noti-Seis or "News Six". The newscast was first anchored by 
Pedro Luis García and Gloria Soltero and only had a 6:00 PM edition. Later 
that year, the station premiered a 9:00 PM edition anchored by the same 
6:00 PM team. In 2002, a new news format was created with a local newscast 
(TUTV Informa) and an international newscast (TUTV Internacional); the 
newscasts were anchored by Gloria Soltero and David Reyes. TUTV also produced 
a weekly in-depth newscast on Sundays, called TuTV Analiza. This year,[when?] 
TUTV's programming received various awards. Locally, En Todas was awarded 
by the American Heart Association. Five productions received Emmy Award 
nominations and one of TUTV's producers received an Emmy in the Entertainment 
Program category. In 2009, when TUTV was rebranded as "Puerto Rico TV", 
its news department was relaunched as Noticias 24/7; around this time, 
WIPR introduced a 24-hour news channel of the same name on channel 6.5 
