Wisconsin (i/wɪˈskɒnsɪn/) is a U.S. state located in the north-central 
United States, in the Midwest and Great Lakes regions. It is bordered by 
Minnesota to the west, Iowa to the southwest, Illinois to the south, Lake 
Michigan to the east, Michigan to the northeast, and Lake Superior to the 
north. Wisconsin is the 23rd largest state by total area and the 20th most 
populous. The state capital is Madison, and its largest city is Milwaukee, 
which is located on the western shore of Lake Michigan. The state is divided 
into 72 counties. Wisconsin's geography is diverse, with the Northern Highland 
and Western Upland along with a part of the Central Plain occupying the 
western part of the state and lowlands stretching to the shore of Lake 
Michigan. Wisconsin is second to Michigan in the length of its Great Lakes 
coastline. Wisconsin is known as "America's Dairyland" because it is one 
of the nation's leading dairy producers, particularly famous for cheese. 
Manufacturing, especially paper products, information technology (IT), 
and tourism are also major contributors to the state's economy. The word 
Wisconsin originates from the name given to the Wisconsin River by one 
of the Algonquian-speaking Native American groups living in the region 
at the time of European contact.[10] French explorer Jacques Marquette 
was the first European to reach the Wisconsin River, arriving in 1673 and 
calling the river Meskousing in his journal.[11] Subsequent French writers 
changed the spelling from Meskousing to Ouisconsin, and over time this 
became the name for both the Wisconsin River and the surrounding lands. 
English speakers anglicized the spelling from Ouisconsin to Wisconsin when 
they began to arrive in large numbers during the early 19th century. The 
legislature of Wisconsin Territory made the current spelling official in 
1845.[12] The Algonquin word for Wisconsin and its original meaning have 
both grown obscure. Interpretations vary, but most implicate the river 
and the red sandstone that lines its banks. One leading theory holds that 
the name originated from the Miami word Meskonsing, meaning "it lies red", 
a reference to the setting of the Wisconsin River as it flows through the 
reddish sandstone of the Wisconsin Dells.[13] Other theories include claims 
that the name originated from one of a variety of Ojibwa words meaning 
"red stone place", "where the waters gather", or "great rock".[14] Wisconsin 
has been home to a wide variety of cultures over the past 12,000 years. 
The first people arrived around 10,000 BCE during the Wisconsin Glaciation. 
These early inhabitants, called Paleo-Indians, hunted now-extinct ice age 
animals such as the Boaz mastodon, a prehistoric mastodon skeleton unearthed 
along with spear points in southwest Wisconsin.[15] After the ice age ended 
around 8000 BCE, people in the subsequent Archaic period lived by hunting, 
fishing, and gathering food from wild plants. Agricultural societies emerged 
gradually over the Woodland period between 1000 BCE to 1000 CE. Toward 
the end of this period, Wisconsin was the heartland of the "Effigy Mound 
culture", which built thousands of animal-shaped mounds across the landscape.[16] 
Later, between 1000 and 1500 CE, the Mississippian and Oneota cultures 
built substantial settlements including the fortified village at Aztalan 
in southeast Wisconsin.[17] The Oneota may be the ancestors of the modern 
Ioway and Ho-Chunk tribes who shared the Wisconsin region with the Menominee 
at the time of European contact.[18] Other Native American groups living 
in Wisconsin when Europeans first settled included the Ojibwa, Sauk, Fox, 
Kickapoo, and Pottawatomie, who migrated to Wisconsin from the east between 
1500 and 1700.[19] The first European to visit what became Wisconsin was 
probably the French explorer Jean Nicolet. He canoed west from Georgian 
Bay through the Great Lakes in 1634, and it is traditionally assumed that 
he came ashore near Green Bay at Red Banks.[20] Pierre Radisson and Médard 
des Groseilliers visited Green Bay again in 1654–1666 and Chequamegon Bay 
in 1659–1660, where they traded for fur with local Native Americans.[21] 
In 1673, Jacques Marquette and Louis Jolliet became the first to record 
a journey on the Fox-Wisconsin Waterway all the way to the Mississippi 
River near Prairie du Chien.[22] Frenchmen like Nicholas Perrot continued 
to ply the fur trade across Wisconsin through the 17th and 18th centuries, 
but the French made no permanent settlements in Wisconsin before Great 
Britain won control of the region following the French and Indian War in 
1763. Even so, French traders continued to work in the region after the 
war, and some, beginning with Charles de Langlade in 1764, now settled 
in Wisconsin permanently rather than returning to British-controlled Canada.[23] 
The British gradually took over Wisconsin during the French and Indian 
War, taking control of Green Bay in 1761 and gaining control of all of 
Wisconsin in 1763. Like the French, the British were interested in little 
but the fur trade. One notable event in the fur trading industry in Wisconsin 
occurred in 1791, when two free African Americans set up a fur trading 
post among the Menominee at present day Marinette. The first permanent 
settlers, mostly French Canadians, some Anglo-New Englanders and a few 
African American freedmen, arrived in Wisconsin while it was under British 
control. Charles Michel de Langlade is generally recognized as the first 
settler, establishing a trading post at Green Bay in 1745, and moving there 
permanently in 1764.[24] Settlement began at Prairie du Chien around 1781. 
The French residents at the trading post in what is now Green Bay, referred 
to the town as "La Baye", however British fur traders referred to it as 
"Green Bay", because the water and the shore assumed green tints in early 
spring. The old French title was gradually dropped, and the British name 
of "Green Bay" eventually stuck. The region coming under British rule had 
virtually no adverse effect on the French residents as the British needed 
the cooperation of the French fur traders and the French fur traders needed 
the goodwill of the British. During the French occupation of the region 
licenses for fur trading had been issued scarcely and only to select groups 
of traders, whereas the British, in an effort to make as much money as 
possible from the region, issued licenses for fur trading freely, both 
to British and French residents. The fur trade in what is now Wisconsin 
reached its height under British rule, and the first self-sustaining farms 
in the state were established as well. From 1763 to 1780, Green Bay was 
a prosperous community which produced its own foodstuff, built graceful 
cottages and held dances and festivities.[25] Wisconsin became a territorial 
possession of the United States in 1783 after the American Revolutionary 
War. However, the British remained in control until after the War of 1812, 
the outcome of which finally established an American presence in the area.[26] 
Under American control, the economy of the territory shifted from fur trading 
to lead mining. The prospect of easy mineral wealth drew immigrants from 
throughout the U.S. and Europe to the lead deposits located at Mineral 
Point, Dodgeville, and nearby areas. Some miners found shelter in the holes 
they had dug and earned the nickname "badgers", leading to Wisconsin's 
identity as the "Badger State."[27] The sudden influx of white miners prompted 
tension with the local Native American population. The Winnebago War of 
1827 and the Black Hawk War of 1832 culminated in the forced removal of 
Native Americans from most parts of the state.[28] Following these conflicts, 
Wisconsin Territory was created by an act of the United States Congress 
on April 20, 1836. By fall of that year, the best prairie groves of the 
counties surrounding what is now Milwaukee were occupied by farmers from 
the New England states.[29] The Erie Canal facilitated the travel of both 
Yankee settlers and European immigrants to Wisconsin Territory. Yankees 
from New England and upstate New York seized a dominant position in law 
and politics, enacting policies that marginalized the region's earlier 
Native American and French-Canadian residents.[30] Yankees also speculated 
in real estate, platted towns such as Racine, Beloit, Burlington, and Janesville, 
and established schools, civic institutions, and Congregationalist churches.[31][32][33] 
At the same time, many Germans, Irish, Norwegians and other immigrants 
also settled in towns and farms across the territory, establishing Catholic 
and Lutheran institutions. The growing population allowed Wisconsin to 
gain statehood on May 29, 1848, as the 30th state. Between 1840 and 1850, 
Wisconsin's non-Indian population had swollen from 31,000 to 305,000. Over 
a third of residents (110,500) were foreign born, including 38,000 Germans, 
28,000 British immigrants from England, Scotland and Wales, and 21,000 
Irish. Another third (103,000) were Yankees from New England and western 
New York state. Only about 63,000 residents in 1850 had been born in Wisconsin.[34] 
Nelson Dewey, the first governor of Wisconsin, was a Democrat. Dewey oversaw 
the transition from the territorial to the new state government.[35] He 
encouraged the development of the state's infrastructure, particularly 
the construction of new roads, railroads, canals, and harbors, as well 
as the improvement of the Fox and Wisconsin Rivers.[35] During his administration, 
the State Board of Public Works was organized.[35] Dewey was an abolitionist 
and the first of many Wisconsin governors to advocate against the spread 
of slavery into new states and territories.[35] The home Dewey built near 
Cassville is now a state park.[36] Politics in early Wisconsin were defined 
by the greater national debate over slavery. A free state from its foundation, 
Wisconsin became a center of northern abolitionism. The debate became especially 
intense in 1854 after Joshua Glover, a runaway slave from Missouri, was 
captured in Racine. Glover was taken into custody under the Federal Fugitive 
Slave Law, but a mob of abolitionists stormed the prison where Glover was 
held and helped him escape to Canada. In a trial stemming from the incident, 
the Wisconsin Supreme Court ultimately declared the Fugitive Slave Law 
unconstitutional.[37] The Republican Party, founded on March 20, 1854, 
by anti-slavery expansion activists in Ripon, Wisconsin, grew to dominate 
state politics in the aftermath of these events.[38] During the Civil War, 
around 91,000 troops from Wisconsin fought for the Union.[39] Wisconsin's 
economy also diversified during the early years of statehood. While lead 
mining diminished, agriculture became a principal occupation in the southern 
half of the state. Railroads were built across the state to help transport 
grains to market, and industries like J.I. Case & Company in Racine were 
founded to build agricultural equipment. Wisconsin briefly became one of 
the nation's leading producers of wheat during the 1860s.[40] Meanwhile, 
the lumber industry dominated in the heavily forested northern sections 
of Wisconsin, and sawmills sprang up in cities like La Crosse, Eau Claire, 
and Wausau. These economic activities had dire environmental consequences. 
By the close of the 19th century, intensive agriculture had devastated 
soil fertility, and lumbering had deforested most of the state.[41] These 
conditions forced both wheat agriculture and the lumber industry into a 
precipitous decline. Beginning in the 1890s, farmers in Wisconsin shifted 
from wheat to dairy production in order to make more sustainable and profitable 
use of their land. Many immigrants carried cheese-making traditions that, 
combined with the state's suitable geography and dairy research led by 
Stephen Babcock at the University of Wisconsin, helped the state build 
a reputation as "America's Dairyland."[42] Meanwhile, conservationists 
including Aldo Leopold helped reestablish the state's forests during the 
early 20th century,[43] paving the way for a more renewable lumber and 
paper milling industry as well as promoting recreational tourism in the 
northern woodlands. Manufacturing also boomed in Wisconsin during the early 
20th century, driven by an immense immigrant workforce arriving from Europe. 
Industries in cities like Milwaukee ranged from brewing and food processing 
to heavy machine production and toolmaking, leading Wisconsin to rank 8th 
among U.S. states in total product value by 1910.[44] The early 20th century 
was also notable for the emergence of progressive politics championed by 
Robert M. La Follette. Between 1901 and 1914, Progressive Republicans in 
Wisconsin created the nation's first comprehensive statewide primary election 
system,[45] the first effective workplace injury compensation law,[46] 
and the first state income tax,[47] making taxation proportional to actual 
earnings. The progressive Wisconsin Idea also promoted the statewide expansion 
of the University of Wisconsin through the UW-Extension system at this 
time.[48] Later, UW economics professors John R. Commons and Harold Groves 
helped Wisconsin create the first unemployment compensation program in 
the United States in 1932.[49] In the immediate aftermath of World War 
II, citizens of Wisconsin were divided over things such as the creation 
of the United Nations, support for the European recovery, and the growth 
of the Soviet Union's power. However, when Europe divided into Communist 
and capitalist camps and the Communist revolution in China succeeded in 
1949, public opinion began to move towards support for the protection of 
democracy and capitalism against Communist expansion.[50] Wisconsin took 
part in several political extremes in the mid to late 20th century, ranging 
from the anti-communist crusades of Senator Joseph McCarthy in the 1950s 
to the radical antiwar protests at UW-Madison that culminated in the Sterling 
Hall bombing in August 1970. The state became a leader in welfare reform 
under Republican Governor Tommy Thompson during the 1990s.[51] The state's 
economy also underwent further transformations towards the close of the 
20th century, as heavy industry and manufacturing declined in favor of 
a service economy based on medicine, education, agribusiness, and tourism. 
Two U.S. Navy battleships, BB-9 and BB-64, were named for the state. Wisconsin 
is bordered by the Montreal River; Lake Superior and Michigan to the north; 
by Lake Michigan to the east; by Illinois to the south; and by Iowa to 
the southwest and Minnesota to the northwest. A border dispute with Michigan 
was settled by two cases, both Wisconsin v. Michigan, in 1934 and 1935. 
The state's boundaries include the Mississippi River and St. Croix River 
in the west, and the Menominee River in the northeast. With its location 
between the Great Lakes and the Mississippi River, Wisconsin is home to 
a wide variety of geographical features. The state is divided into five 
distinct regions. In the north, the Lake Superior Lowland occupies a belt 
of land along Lake Superior. Just to the south, the Northern Highland has 
massive mixed hardwood and coniferous forests including the 1,500,000 acres 
(6,100 km2) Chequamegon-Nicolet National Forest, as well as thousands of 
glacial lakes, and the state's highest point, Timms Hill. In the middle 
of the state, the Central Plain has some unique sandstone formations like 
the Dells of the Wisconsin River in addition to rich farmland. The Eastern 
Ridges and Lowlands region in the southeast is home to many of Wisconsin's 
largest cities. The ridges include the Niagara Escarpment that stretches 
from New York, the Black River Escarpment and the Magnesian Escarpment.[52][53][54] 
The bedrock of the Niagara Escarpment is dolomite, while the two shorter 
ridges have limestone bedrock. In the southwest, the Western Upland is 
a rugged landscape with a mix of forest and farmland, including many bluffs 
on the Mississippi River. This region is part of the Driftless Area, which 
also includes portions of Iowa, Illinois, and Minnesota. This area was 
not covered by glaciers during the most recent ice age, the Wisconsin Glaciation. 
Overall, 46% of Wisconsin's land area is covered by forest. Langlade County 
has a soil rarely found outside of the county called Antigo silt loam.[citation 
needed] Areas under the management of the National Park Service include 
the following:[55] There is one national forest managed by the U.S. Forest 
Service in Wisconsin, Chequamegon-Nicolet National Forest. Wisconsin has 
sister-state relationships with the Germany's Hesse, Japan's Chiba Prefecture, 
Mexico's Jalisco, China's Heilongjiang, and Nicaragua.[56] The pole of 
inaccessibility for Wisconsin, located approximately 15 miles (24 km) southwest 
of Wausau at 44°52′57″N 89°54′43″W﻿ / ﻿44.8824°N 89.912°W﻿ / 44.8824; -89.912﻿ 
(Wisconsin Pole of Inaccessibility), marks the location furthest from any 
point not within Wisconsin. Most of Wisconsin is classified as warm-summer 
humid continental climate (Köppen Dfb), while southern and southwestern 
portions are classified as hot-summer humid continental climate (Köppen 
Dfa). The highest temperature ever recorded in the state was in the Wisconsin 
Dells, on July 13, 1936, where it reached 114 °F (46 °C). The lowest temperature 
ever recorded in Wisconsin was in the village of Couderay, where it reached 
−55 °F (−48 °C) on both February 2 and 4, 1996. Wisconsin also receives 
a large amount of regular snowfall averaging around 40 inches in the southern 
portions with up to 160 inches annually in the Lake Superior snowbelt each 
year.[57] The United States Census Bureau estimates that the population 
of Wisconsin was 5,771,337 on July 1, 2015, a 1.48% increase since the 
2010 United States Census.[6] Since its founding, Wisconsin has been ethnically 
heterogeneous. Following the period of French fur traders, the next wave 
of settlers were miners, many of whom were Cornish, who settled the southwestern 
area of the state. The next wave was dominated by "Yankees", migrants of 
English descent from New England and upstate New York; in the early years 
of statehood, they dominated the state's heavy industry, finance, politics 
and education. Between 1850 and 1900, large numbers of European immigrants 
followed them, including Germans, Scandinavians (the largest group being 
Norwegian), and smaller groups of Belgians, Dutch, Swiss, Finns, Irish, 
Poles, Italians, Luxembourgers, and others. In the 20th century, large 
numbers of Mexicans and African Americans came, settling mainly in Milwaukee; 
and after the end of the Vietnam War came an influx of Hmongs. According 
to the 2010 Census, the racial composition of the population was: In the 
same year, 5.9% of the total population was of Hispanic or Latino origin 
(they may be of any race).[60] The six largest ancestry groups in Wisconsin 
are: German (42.6%), Irish (10.9%), Polish (9.3%), Norwegian (8.5%), English 
(6.5%), and Italian (6.1%).[64] German is the most common ancestry in every 
county in the state, except Menominee, Trempealeau and Vernon.[65] Wisconsin 
has the highest percentage of residents of Polish ancestry of any state.[64] 
The various ethnic groups settled in different areas of the state. Although 
Germans settled throughout the state, the largest concentration was in 
Milwaukee. Norwegians settled in lumbering and farming areas in the north 
and west. Small colonies of Belgians, Swiss, Finns and other groups settled 
in their particular areas, with Irish, Italian, and Polish immigrants settling 
primarily in urban areas.[66] Menominee County is the only county in the 
eastern United States with a Native American majority. African Americans 
came to Milwaukee, especially from 1940 on. 86% of Wisconsin's African-American 
population live in four cities: Milwaukee, Racine, Beloit, Kenosha, with 
Milwaukee home to nearly three-fourths of the state's black Americans. 
In the Great Lakes region, only Detroit and Cleveland have a higher percentage 
of African-American residents.[citation needed] 33% of Wisconsin's Asian 
population is Hmong, with significant communities in Milwaukee, Wausau, 
Green Bay, Sheboygan, Appleton, Madison, La Crosse, Eau Claire, Oshkosh, 
and Manitowoc.[67] Of the residents of Wisconsin, 71.7% were born in Wisconsin, 
23.0% were born in a different US state, 0.7% were born in Puerto Rico, 
U.S. Island areas, or born abroad to American parent(s), and 4.6% were 
foreign born.[68] The percentage of Wisconsin residents who belong to various 
affiliations are [69] Christian 81% (Protestant 50%, Roman Catholic 29%, 
Mormon 0.5%), Jewish 0.5%, Muslim 0.5%, Buddhist 0.5%, Hindu 0.5% and the 
unaffiliated at 15%. Christianity is the predominant religion of Wisconsin. 
As of 2008, the three largest denominational groups in Wisconsin were Catholic, 
Evangelical Protestant, and Mainline Protestant.[70] As of 2010, the Catholic 
Church had the highest number of adherents in Wisconsin (at 1,425,523), 
followed by the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America with 414,326 members, 
and the Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod with 223,279 adherents.[71] The 
Wisconsin Evangelical Lutheran Synod, which has the fourth highest numbers 
of adherents in Wisconsin, and the international conference it belongs 
to, the Confessional Evangelical Lutheran Conference, both have their headquarters 
in Waukesha, Wisconsin.[72][73] Statewide FBI Crime statistics for 2009 
include 144 murders/nonnegligent manslaughter; 1,108 rapes; 4,850 robberies; 
8,431 aggravated assaults; and 147,486 property crimes.[74] Wisconsin also 
publishes its own statistics through the Office of Justice Assistance.[75] 
The OJA reported 14,603 violent crimes in 2009, with a clearance rate (% 
solved) of 50%.[76] The OJA reported 4,633 sexual assaults in 2009, with 
an overall clearance rate for sexual assaults of 57%. The Wisconsin Blue 
Book is the primary published reference about the government and politics 
of the state, documenting the organization of the state's three branches 
of government. Published every two years with updated information, copies 
are available by contacting state legislators. Wisconsin's Constitution 
outlines the structure and function of state government. Wisconsin's government 
is organized into three branches: executive, legislative, and judicial. 
The executive branch is headed by the governor. The current governor, Scott 
Walker, assumed office on January 3, 2011. In addition to the governor, 
the executive branch includes five other elected constitutional officers: 
Lieutenant Governor, Secretary of State, Attorney General, Treasurer, and 
State Superintendent of Public Instruction. Four members of the Wisconsin 
executive branch are Republicans. The Secretary of State is a Democrat, 
and the Superintendent of Public Instruction of Wisconsin is a non-partisan 
position. The Wisconsin State Legislature is Wisconsin's legislative branch. 
The Legislature is a bicameral body consisting of the Assembly and the 
Senate. Wisconsin's court system has four levels: municipal courts, circuit 
courts, the Court of Appeals, and the Supreme Court. Municipal courts typically 
handle cases involving local ordinance matters. The circuit courts are 
Wisconsin's trial courts, they have original jurisdiction in all civil 
and criminal cases within the state. Challenges to circuit court rulings 
are heard by the Wisconsin Court of Appeals, consisting of sixteen judges 
who typically sit in three-judge panels. As the state's highest appellate 
court, the Wisconsin Supreme Court may hear both appeals from lower courts 
and original actions. In addition to deciding cases, the Supreme Court 
is responsible for administering the state's court system and regulating 
the practice of law in Wisconsin.[77] In the United States Senate Wisconsin 
is represented by Ron Johnson and Tammy Baldwin. Wisconsin is divided into 
eight congressional districts. Wisconsin collects personal income taxes 
(based on five income brackets) which range from 4% to 7.65%. The state 
sales and use tax rate is 5.0%. Fifty-nine counties have an additional 
sales/use tax of 0.5%.[78] Milwaukee County and four surrounding counties 
have an additional temporary 0.1% tax that helps fund the Miller Park baseball 
stadium, which was completed in 2001. The most common property tax assessed 
on Wisconsin residents is the real property tax, or their residential property 
tax. Wisconsin does not impose a property tax on vehicles, but does levy 
an annual registration fee. Property taxes are the most important tax revenue 
source for Wisconsin's local governments, as well as major methods of funding 
school districts, vocational technical colleges, special purpose districts 
and tax incremental finance districts. Equalized values are based on the 
full market value of all taxable property in the state, except for agricultural 
land. In order to provide property tax relief for farmers, the value of 
agricultural land is determined by its value for agricultural uses, rather 
than for its possible development value. Equalized values are used to distribute 
state aid payments to counties, municipalities, and technical colleges. 
Assessments prepared by local assessors are used to distribute the property 
tax burden within individual municipalities. Wisconsin does not assess 
a tax on intangible property. Wisconsin does not collect inheritance taxes. 
Until January 1, 2008, Wisconsin's estate tax was decoupled from the federal 
estate tax laws; therefore the state imposed its own estate tax on certain 
large estates.[79] There are no toll roads in Wisconsin; highway construction 
and maintenance are funded in part by motor fuel tax revenues, and the 
remaining balance is drawn from the State General Fund. Non-highway road 
construction and maintenance are funded by local governments (municipalities 
or counties). Wisconsin has had a diplomatic relationship with the Japanese 
prefecture of Chiba since 1990.[56] Wisconsin narrowly casted its votes 
for Donald Trump in the 2016 election, swinging the state Republican. The 
last time Wisconsin voted for a Republican was in 1984, an election where 
49/50 states voted Republican. Both the 2000 and 2004 presidential elections 
were quite close, with Wisconsin receiving heavy doses of national advertising, 
in accord with its status as a "swing", or pivot, state. Al Gore carried 
the presidential vote in 2000 by 5,700 votes, and John Kerry won Wisconsin 
in 2004 by 11,000 votes. Again, Barack Obama carried the state in 2008 
by 381,000 votes (56%). During the period of the Civil War, Wisconsin was 
a Republican state; in fact it is the state that gave birth to the Republican 
Party, although ethno-religious issues in the late 19th century caused 
a brief split in the Republican coalition. Through the first half of the 
20th century, Wisconsin's politics were dominated by Robert La Follette 
and his sons, originally of the Republican Party, but later of the revived 
Progressive Party. Since 1945, the state has maintained a close balance 
between Republicans and Democrats. Republican Senator Joe McCarthy was 
a controversial national figure in the early 1950s. Recent leading Republicans 
include former Governor Tommy Thompson and Congressman F. James Sensenbrenner, 
Jr.; prominent Democrats include Senators Herb Kohl and Russ Feingold, 
and Congressman David Obey.[80] The most famous controversy in the state's 
political history dealt with foreign language teaching in schools. This 
was fought out in the Bennett Law campaign of 1890, when the Germans switched 
to the Democratic Party because of the Republican Party's support of the 
Bennett Law, which led to a major victory for the Democrats.[citation needed] 
The cities of Wisconsin have been active in increasing the availability 
of legislative information on the internet, thereby providing for greater 
government transparency. Currently three of the five most populous cities 
in Wisconsin provide their constituents with internet-based access of all 
public records directly from the cities' databases. Wisconsin cities started 
to make this a priority after Milwaukee began doing so, on their page, 
in 2001. One such city, Madison, has been named the Number 1 digital city 
by the Center for Digital Government in consecutive years.[citation needed] 
In recent decades, Wisconsin has become a Democratic-leaning state at the 
presidential level; it has voted for Democratic candidates in each of the 
last seven presidential elections. The last Republican to carry the state 
was Ronald Reagan in 1984. In 2012, Republican presidential candidate Mitt 
Romney chose Wisconsin Congressman Paul Ryan, a native of Janesville, as 
his running mate against incumbent Democratic President Barack Obama and 
Vice President Joe Biden. Despite Ryan's presence on the Republican ticket, 
Obama still carried Wisconsin by a margin of 53% to 46%. At the statewide 
level, Wisconsin is competitive, with control regularly alternating between 
the two parties. The 2010 elections saw a huge Republican resurgence in 
Wisconsin. Republicans took control of the governor's office and both houses 
of the state legislature. Republican Ron Johnson defeated Democratic incumbent 
U.S. Senator Russ Feingold, and Republicans took two previously Democratic-held 
House seats, creating a 5–3 Republican majority House delegation. On February 
14, 2011, the Wisconsin State Capitol erupted with protests when the Legislature 
took up a bill that would end most collective bargaining rights for state 
employees, except for wages, to address the $3.6 bil. deficit. The protests 
attracted tens of thousands of people each day,[when?] and garnered international 
attention. The Assembly passed the bill 53–42 on March 10 after the State 
Senate passed it the night before, and sent it to the Governor for his 
signature.[81] In response to the bill, enough signatures were gathered 
to force a recall election against Governor Walker. Tom Barrett, the mayor 
of Milwaukee and Walker's 2010 opponent, won the Democratic primary and 
faced Walker again. Walker won the election by 53% to 46% and became the 
first governor in United States history to retain his seat after a recall 
election. Republicans had a stronghold in the Fox Valley, but elected a 
Democrat, Steve Kagen, of Appleton, for the 8th Congressional District 
in 2006. However, Kagen survived only two terms and was replaced by Republican 
Reid Ribble in the Republican Party's sweep of Wisconsin in November 2010, 
the first time the Republican Party has taken back both chambers of the 
state legislature and the governorship in the same election. Republicans 
have held Waukesha County. The City of Milwaukee heads the list of Wisconsin's 
Democratic strongholds, which also includes Madison and the state's Native 
American reservations. Wisconsin's largest Congressional district, the 
7th, had voted Democratic since 1969. Its representative, David Obey, chaired 
the powerful House Appropriations Committee.[82] However, Obey retired 
and the once Democratic seat was overtaken by Republican Sean Duffy in 
November 2010. Wisconsin's political history encompasses, on the one hand, 
"Fighting Bob" La Follette and the Progressive movement; and on the other, 
the Republican and anti-Communist Joe McCarthy. From the early 20th century, 
the Socialist Party of America had a base in Milwaukee. The phenomenon 
was referred to as "sewer socialism" because the elected officials were 
more concerned with public works and reform than with revolution (although 
revolutionary socialism existed in the city as well). Its influence faded 
in the late 1950s, largely because of the red scare and racial tensions.[83] 
The first Socialist mayor of a large city in the United States was Emil 
Seidel, elected mayor of Milwaukee in 1910; another Socialist, Daniel Hoan, 
was mayor of Milwaukee from 1916 to 1940; and a third, Frank P. Zeidler, 
from 1948 to 1960. Succeeding Frank Zeidler, the last of Milwaukee's Socialist 
mayors, (Henry Maier), a former Wisconsin State Senator and member of the 
Democratic Party was elected mayor of Milwaukee in 1960. Maier remained 
in office for 28 years, the longest serving mayor in Milwaukee history. 
Socialist newspaper editor Victor Berger was repeatedly elected as a U.S. 
Representative, although he was prevented from serving for some time because 
of his opposition to the First World War. William Proxmire, a Democratic 
Senator (1957–89), dominated[citation needed] the Democratic party for 
years; he was best known for attacking waste and fraud in federal spending. 
Democrat Russ Feingold was the only Senator to vote against the Patriot 
Act in 2001. Republican Paul Ryan was, at age 28, the youngest member of 
the Congressional freshman class when he took office in January 1999. In 
2012, he was selected as the Republican party's candidate for Vice President, 
running with Mitt Romney. In 2004, Gwen Moore, a Democrat from Milwaukee, 
became Wisconsin's first African-American U.S. Representative. In 2006, 
Democrats gained in a national sweep of opposition to the Bush administration, 
and the Iraq War. The retiring GOP 8th District Congressman, Mark Green, 
of Green Bay, ran against the incumbent Governor Jim Doyle. Green lost 
by 8% statewide, making Doyle the first Democratic governor to be re-elected 
in 32 years. The Republicans lost control of the state Senate. Although 
Democrats gained eight seats in the state Assembly, Republicans retained 
a five-vote majority in that house. In 2008, Democrats regained control 
of the State Assembly by a 52–46 margin, marking the first time since 1987 
that the governor and state legislature were both Democratic.[citation 
needed] With the election of Scott Walker, Republicans won both chambers 
of the legislature and the governorship, the first time all three changed 
partisan control in the same election. They have maintained that status 
since 2010. Following the 2014 general election on November 4, 2014, the 
Governor, Lieutenant Governor, State Attorney General and State Treasurer 
are all Republicans; the Secretary of State is a Democrat.[84] The state 
also chose the Republican candidate for President in 2016, Donald Trump, 
for the first time since 1984. In 2010 Wisconsin's gross state product 
was $248.3 billion, making it 21st among U.S. states.[85] The economy of 
Wisconsin is driven by manufacturing, agriculture, and health care. The 
state's economic output from manufacturing was $48.9 billion in 2008, making 
it the tenth largest among states in manufacturing gross domestic product.[86] 
Manufacturing accounts for about 20% of the state's gross domestic product, 
a proportion that is third among all states.[87] The per capita personal 
income was $35,239 in 2008. In June 2010, the state's unemployment rate 
was 8% (seasonally adjusted).[88] In quarter four of 2011, the largest 
employers in Wisconsin were: Wisconsin produces about a quarter of America's 
cheese, leading the nation in cheese production.[90][91] It is second in 
milk production, after California,[92] and third in per-capita milk production, 
behind California and Vermont.[93] Wisconsin is second in butter production, 
producing about one-quarter of the nation's butter.[94] The state ranks 
first nationally in the production of corn for silage, cranberries[95] 
ginseng,[96] and snap beans for processing. It grows over half the national 
crop of cranberries.[95] and 97% of the nation's ginseng.[96] Wisconsin 
is also a leading producer of oats, potatoes, carrots, tart cherries, maple 
syrup, and sweet corn for processing. The significance of the state's agricultural 
production is exemplified by the depiction of a Holstein cow, an ear of 
corn, and a wheel of cheese on Wisconsin's state quarter design.[97] A 
large part of the state's manufacturing sector includes commercial food 
processing, including well-known brands such as Oscar Mayer, Tombstone 
frozen pizza, Johnsonville brats, and Usinger's sausage. Kraft Foods alone 
employs over 5,000 people in the state. Milwaukee is a major producer of 
beer and was formerly headquarters for Miller Brewing Company — the nation's 
second-largest brewer – until it merged with Coors Brewing Company. Formerly, 
Schlitz, Blatz, and Pabst were cornerstone breweries in Milwaukee. Wisconsin 
is home to a very large and diversified manufacturing economy, with special 
focus on transportation and capital equipment. Major Wisconsin companies 
in these categories include the Kohler Company; Mercury Marine; Rockwell 
Automation; Johnson Controls; John Deere; Briggs & Stratton; Milwaukee 
Electric Tool Company; Caterpillar Inc.; Joy Global; The Manitowoc Company; 
Oshkosh Corporation; Harley-Davidson; Case IH; S. C. Johnson & Son; Ashley 
Furniture; Ariens; and Evinrude Outboard Motors. Wisconsin is a major producer 
of paper, packaging, and other consumer goods. Major consumer products 
companies based in the state include SC Johnson & Co., and Diversey Inc., 
Wisconsin also ranks first nationwide in the production of paper products; 
the lower Fox River from Lake Winnebago to Green Bay has 24 paper mills 
along its 39 miles (63 km) stretch. The development and manufacture of 
health care devices and software is a growing sector of the state's economy, 
with key players such as GE Healthcare, Epic Systems, and TomoTherapy. 
Tourism is a major industry in Wisconsin – the state's third largest, according 
to the Department of Tourism. Tourist destinations such as the House on 
the Rock near Spring Green, Circus World Museum in Baraboo, and The Dells 
of the Wisconsin River draw thousands of visitors annually, and festivals 
such as Summerfest and the EAA Oshkosh Airshow draw international attention, 
along with hundreds of thousands of visitors.[98] Given the large number 
of lakes and rivers in the state, water recreation is very popular. In 
the North Country, what had been an industrial area focused on timber has 
largely been transformed into a vacation destination. Popular interest 
in the environment and environmentalism, added to traditional interests 
in hunting and fishing, has attracted a large urban audience within driving 
range.[99] The distinctive Door Peninsula, which extends off the eastern 
coast of the state, contains one of the state's tourist destinations, Door 
County. Door County is a popular destination for boaters because of the 
large number of natural harbors, bays, and ports on the Green Bay and Lake 
Michigan side of the peninsula that forms the county. The area draws hundreds 
of thousands of visitors yearly to its quaint villages, seasonal cherry 
picking, and fish boils.[100] On January 1, 2008, a new tax incentive for 
the film industry came into effect. The first major production to take 
advantage of the tax incentive was Michael Mann's Public Enemies. While 
the producers spent $18 million on the film, it was reported that most 
of that went to out-of-state workers and for out-of-state services; Wisconsin 
taxpayers had provided $4.6 million in subsidies, and derived only $5 million 
in revenues from the film's making.[101] Wisconsin has no production of 
oil, gas, or coal.[102] Its in-state electrical generation is mostly from 
coal. Other important electricity sources are natural gas and nuclear.[102] 
The state has a mandate that ten percent of its electrical energy come 
from renewable sources by the end of 2015.[103] This goal has been met, 
but not with in state sources. One third of that ten percent comes from 
out of state sources, mostly wind generated electricity from Minnesota 
and Iowa. The state has agnostic policies for developing wind power in 
state.[104] Wisconsin is served by eight commercial service airports, in 
addition to a number of general aviation airports. The Wisconsin Department 
of Transportation is responsible for planning, building and maintaining 
the state's highways. Seven Interstate Highways transverse the state. Amtrak 
provides daily passenger rail service between Chicago and Milwaukee. It 
also provides cross-country service via the Empire Builder with station 
stops in several cities in Wisconsin.[105] Over 68% of Wisconsin residents 
live in urban areas, with the Greater Milwaukee area home to roughly one-third 
of the state's population.[106] Milwaukee is at the northern edge of an 
urban area bordering Lake Michigan that stretches southward into greater 
Chicago and northwestern Indiana, with a population of over 11 million. 
With over 594,000 residents, Milwaukee is the 30th-largest city in the 
country.[107] The string of cities along the western edge of Lake Michigan 
is generally considered to be an example of a megalopolis. With a population 
of around 233,000 and metropolitan area of over 600,000, Madison has a 
dual identity as state capital and college town. Madison's suburb, Middleton, 
was ranked the "Best Place to Live in America" in 2007 by Money Magazine. 
Medium-size cities dot the state and anchor a network of working farms 
surrounding them. As of 2011, there were 12 cities in Wisconsin with a 
population of 50,000 or more, accounting for 73% of the state's employment.[108] 
Wisconsin has three types of municipality: cities, villages, and towns. 
Cities and villages are incorporated urban areas. Towns are unincorporated 
minor civil divisions of counties with limited self-government. Wisconsin, 
along with Minnesota and Michigan, was among the Midwestern leaders in 
the emergent American state university movement following the Civil War 
in the United States. By the start of the 20th century, education in the 
state advocated the "Wisconsin Idea", which emphasized service to the people 
of the state. The "Wisconsin Idea" exemplified the Progressive movement 
within colleges and universities at the time.[109] Today, public post-secondary 
education in Wisconsin includes both the 26-campus University of Wisconsin 
System, with the flagship university University of Wisconsin–Madison, and 
the 16-campus Wisconsin Technical College System. Private colleges and 
universities include Alverno College, Beloit College, Cardinal Stritch 
University, Carroll University, Carthage College, Concordia University 
Wisconsin, Edgewood College, Lakeland College, Lawrence University, Marquette 
University, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee School of Engineering, 
Ripon College, St. Norbert College, Wisconsin Lutheran College, and others. 
Residents of Wisconsin are referred to as Wisconsinites. The traditional 
prominence of references to dairy farming and cheesemaking in Wisconsin's 
rural economy (the state's license plates have read "America's Dairyland" 
since 1940[110]) have led to the nickname (sometimes used pejoratively 
among non-residents) of "cheeseheads" and to the creation of "cheesehead 
hats" made of yellow foam in the shape of a wedge of cheese.[citation needed] 
Numerous ethnic festivals are held throughout Wisconsin to celebrate the 
heritage of its citizens. Such festivals include Summerfest, Oktoberfest, 
Polish Fest, Festa Italiana, Irish Fest, Bastille Days, Syttende Mai (Norwegian 
Constitution Day), Brat(wurst) Days in Sheboygan, Polka Days, Cheese Days 
in Monroe and Mequon, African World Festival, Indian Summer, Arab Fest, 
Wisconsin Highland Games and many others.[111] The Milwaukee Art Museum, 
with its brise soleil designed by Santiago Calatrava, is known for its 
interesting architecture. Monona Terrace in Madison, a convention center 
designed by Taliesin architect Anthony Puttnam, is based on a 1930s design 
by Frank Lloyd Wright.[112] Wright's home and studio in the 20th century 
was at Taliesin, south of Spring Green. Decades after Wright's death, Taliesin 
remains an architectural office and school for his followers. Wisconsin's 
music festivals include Eau Claire's,[113] Miller Lite Presents Country 
Fest, Bud Light Presents Country Jam USA, the Coors Hodag Country Festival, 
Porterfield Country Music Festival, Country Thunder USA in Twin Lakes,[113] 
and Ford Presents Country USA. Milwaukee hosts Summerfest, dubbed "The 
World's Largest Music Festival", every year. This festival is held at the 
lakefront Henry Maier Festival Park just south of downtown, as are a summer-long 
array of ethnic musical festivals. The Wisconsin Area Music Industry provides 
an annual WAMI event where it presents an awards show for top Wisconsin 
artists.[114] Drinking has long been considered a significant part of Wisconsin 
culture, and the state ranks at or near the top of national measures of 
per-capita alcohol consumption, consumption of alcohol per state, and proportion 
of drinkers. Consumption per-capita per-event, however, ranks low among 
the nation; number of events (number of times alcohol is involved) is significantly 
higher or highest, but consumption at each event smaller, marking Wisconsin's 
consumption as frequent and moderate.[115] Factors such as cultural identification 
with the state's heritage of German immigration, the longstanding presence 
of major breweries in Milwaukee, and a cold climate are often associated 
with the prevalence of drinking in Wisconsin. In Wisconsin, the legal drinking 
age is 21, except when accompanied by a parent, guardian, or spouse who 
is at least 21 years old. Age requirements are waived for possessing alcohol 
when employed by a brewer, brewpub, beer and/or liquor wholesaler, or producer 
of alcohol fuel. The minimum legal age to purchase alcohol is 21, with 
no exceptions.[116] The Absolute Sobriety law states that any person not 
of legal drinking age (currently 21 years of age) may not drive after consuming 
alcohol.[117] On September 30, 2003, the state legislature, reluctant to 
lower a DUI offense from BAC 0.10 to 0.08, did so only as a result of federal 
government pressure.[118] The Wisconsin Tavern League opposes raising the 
alcoholic beverage tax. The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel series "Wasted in 
Wisconsin" examined this situation.[119] The varied landscape of Wisconsin 
makes the state a popular vacation destination for outdoor recreation. 
Winter events include skiing, ice fishing and snowmobile derbies. Wisconsin 
is situated on two Great Lakes and has many inland lakes of varied size; 
the state contains 11,188 square miles (28,980 km2) of water, more than 
all but three other states - Alaska, Michigan, and Florida.[120] Outdoor 
activities are popular in Wisconsin, especially hunting and fishing. One 
of the most prevalent game animals is the whitetail deer. Each year in 
Wisconsin, well over 600,000 deer hunting licenses are sold.[121] In 2008, 
the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources projected the pre-hunt deer 
population to be between 1.5 and 1.7 million. Wisconsin is represented 
by major league teams in three sports: football, baseball, and basketball. 
Lambeau Field, located in Green Bay, Wisconsin, is home to the National 
Football League's Green Bay Packers. The Packers have been part of the 
NFL since the league's second season in 1921 and hold the record for the 
most NFL titles, earning the city of Green Bay the nickname "Titletown 
USA". The Packers are the smallest city franchise in the NFL and the only 
one owned by shareholders statewide. The franchise was founded by "Curly" 
Lambeau who played and coached for them. The Green Bay Packers are one 
of the most successful small-market professional sports franchises in the 
world and have won 13 NFL championships, including the first two AFL-NFL 
Championship games (Super Bowls I and II), Super Bowl XXXI and Super Bowl 
XLV. The state's support of the team is evidenced by the 81,000-person 
waiting list for season tickets to Lambeau Field.[122] The Milwaukee Brewers, 
the state's only major league baseball team, play in Miller Park in Milwaukee, 
the successor to Milwaukee County Stadium since 2001. In 1982, the Brewers 
won the American League Championship, marking their most successful season. 
The team switched from the American League to the National League starting 
with the 1998 season. Before the Brewers, Milwaukee had two prior Major 
League teams. The first team, also called the Brewers, played only one 
season in the newly founded American League in 1901 before moving to St. 
Louis and becoming the Browns, who are now the Baltimore Orioles. Milwaukee 
was also the home of the Braves franchise when they moved from Boston from 
1953 to 1965, winning the World Series in 1957 and the National League 
pennant in 1958, before they moved to Atlanta.[123] The Milwaukee Bucks 
of the National Basketball Association play home games at the Bradley Center. 
The Bucks won the NBA Championship in 1971.[124] The state also has minor 
league teams in hockey (Milwaukee Admirals) and baseball (the Wisconsin 
Timber Rattlers, based in Appleton and the Beloit Snappers of the Class 
A minor leagues). Wisconsin is also home to the Madison Mallards, the La 
Crosse Loggers, the Lakeshore Chinooks, the Eau Claire Express, the Green 
Bay Bullfrogs, the Kenosha Kingfish, the Wisconsin Woodchucks, and the 
Wisconsin Rapids Rafters of the Northwoods League, a collegiate all-star 
summer league. In addition to the Packers, Green Bay is also the home to 
an indoor football team, the Green Bay Blizzard of the IFL. The state is 
home to the six-time MSL Champion Milwaukee Wave.[125] Wisconsin also has 
many college sports programs, including the Wisconsin Badgers, of the University 
of Wisconsin–Madison and the Panthers of University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee. 
The Wisconsin Badgers football former head coach Barry Alvarez led the 
Badgers to three Rose Bowl championships, including back-to-back victories 
in 1999 and 2000. The Badger men's basketball team won the national title 
in 1941 and made trips to college basketball's Final Four in 2000, 2014 
and 2015. The Badgers claimed a historic dual championship in 2006 when 
both the women's and men's hockey teams won national titles. The Marquette 
Golden Eagles of the Big East Conference, the state's other major collegiate 
program, is known for its men's basketball team, which, under the direction 
of Al McGuire, won the NCAA National Championship in 1977. The team returned 
to the Final Four in 2003. Many other schools in the University of Wisconsin 
system compete in the Wisconsin Intercollegiate Athletic Conference at 
the Division III level. The conference is one of the most successful in 
the nation, claiming 107 NCAA national championships in 15 different sports 
as of March 30, 2015.[126] The Semi-Professional Northern Elite Football 
League consists of many teams from Wisconsin. The league is made up of 
former professional, collegiate, and high school players. Teams from Wisconsin 
include: The Green Bay Gladiators from Green Bay, The Fox Valley Force 
in Appleton, The Kimberly Storm in Kimberly, The Central Wisconsin Spartans 
in Wausau, The Eau Claire Crush and the Chippewa Valley Predators from 
Eau Claire, and the Lake Superior Rage from Superior. The league also has 
teams in Michigan and Minnesota. Teams play from May until August. Wisconsin 
is home to the world's oldest operational racetrack. The Milwaukee Mile, 
located in Wisconsin State Fair Park in West Allis, Wisconsin, held races 
there that considerably predate the Indy 500.[127] Wisconsin is home to 
the nation's oldest operating velodrome in Kenosha where races have been 
held every year since 1927.[128] Kohler is home to Whistling Straits golf 
club which has hosted PGA Championships in 2004, 2010 and 2015 and will 
be home to the Ryder Cup golf competition between USA and Europe in 2020.[129] 
The Greater Milwaukee Open, later named the U.S. Bank Championship in Milwaukee, 
was a PGA Tour tournament from 1968 to 2009 held annually in Brown Deer. 
