WJW, channel 8, is a Fox-affiliated television station located in and licensed 
to Cleveland, Ohio, United States. Subchannel 8.2 serves as the area affiliate 
for the classic TV network Antenna TV. The station is owned by the Tribune 
Broadcasting subsidiary of Tribune Media. Its studios are located on Dick 
Goddard Way (named for the station's longtime weatherman, but previously 
known as South Marginal Road) just northeast of downtown Cleveland near 
the shore of Lake Erie, and its transmitter is located in suburban Parma, 
Ohio. The television station launched on December 19, 1949 on channel 9 
as WXEL, owned by the Empire Coil Company, a wartime manufacturer of radio 
coils and transformers.[2] In its early years, WXEL was a primary DuMont 
affiliate, and later became a secondary provider of ABC programs, sharing 
that affiliation with WEWS (channel 5). WXEL also carried a number of CBS 
programs that WEWS declined to air. Some of the daytime shows originated 
at Cinecraft on Franklin. WXEL also carried an affiliation with the short-lived 
Paramount Television Network, and in fact was one of that network's strongest 
affiliates. The station aired such Paramount Network programs as Hollywood 
Wrestling,[3] Bandstand Revue,[4] and Time For Beany.[5] During the late 
1950s, the station was also briefly affiliated with the NTA Film Network.[6] 
Following the 1952 release of the Federal Communications Commission' s 
Sixth Report and Order, a realignment of VHF channels in the Midwest forced 
WXEL to move to channel 8 on December 10, 1953. Its former channel 9 allocation 
was moved to Steubenville and given to a new station, WSTV-TV (now WTOV); 
the switch took place only two weeks before WSTV-TV went on the air. In 
1954 Empire Coil sold two of its television interests—WXEL and KPTV in 
Portland, Oregon, the United States' first UHF station—to Storer Broadcasting. 
George B. Storer, the company's founder and president, was a member of 
the board of directors of CBS, and used his influence to take the CBS television 
affiliation from WEWS in March 1955.[7][8] Storer changed channel 8's call 
letters to WJW-TV on April 15, 1956, to complement Cleveland sister stations 
WJW (850 AM) and WJW-FM (104.1 FM)—now radio stations WKNR and WQAL, respectively. 
All three stations later moved to the former Esquire Theater building at 
1630 Euclid Avenue, near Playhouse Square. In its early years, the station 
lagged behind its competitors in producing local programming, perhaps because 
its studio was located at the transmitter in Parma, while the other stations 
had studios downtown. A young Alan Freed, previously at WAKR radio in Akron, 
worked for WXEL starting in 1949. Freed hosted an afternoon movie and performed 
live commercials for several years before he became the self-titled father 
of "rock and roll" while as an evening host on WJW radio, before moving 
on to radio jobs in New York City. Soupy Sales, then known as Soupy Hines, 
had a weekday variety program called Soup's On where he started his pie-in-the-face 
routines. The station also broadcast a popular and unique 11:00 p.m. newscast, 
The Sohio Reporter, featuring a Western Reserve University speech professor 
named Warren Guthrie who delivered the entire newscast from memory, speaking 
directly into the camera long before the days of the teleprompter.[9] In 
1961, WJW-TV became the broadcast rights holder of the Cleveland Indians. 
Channel 8's partnership with the team continued through 1979, when the 
Indians moved to then-independent station WUAB (channel 43). WJW also carried 
Indians games that were part of the CBS, and later, Fox network packages 
of Major League Baseball games. On November 16, 1963, approximately 30 
WJW radio and TV personalities went on strike, forcing both stations to 
use supervisory and production personnel in those roles, many from parent 
company Storer Broadcasting stations in Atlanta and Miami. The main bargaining 
point was Storer's attempt to institute a new, drastically reduced fee 
schedule for performers. On November 20, WJW-TV broadcast a taped panel 
segment that offered the striking performers the opportunity to state its 
case, since management had presented its side two nights earlier. After 
nearly reaching agreement on November 23 before talks collapsed, the two 
sides finally came to an agreement on November 27. In September 1963, WJW-TV 
was one of the first stations to use a two-man news anchor team, Joel Daly 
and Doug Adair, in the studio together. The newscast was called City Camera 
News, and reporters were equipped with Polaroid cameras to photograph news 
events, so that pictures could be quickly broadcast when they returned 
to the studio.[10] Station programming also featured Adventure Road hosted 
by Jim Doney, which presented filmed travelogues narrated by the filmmakers. 
Daly and Adair reigned as Cleveland's top news team until June 1967, when 
Daly was hired away by WBKB-TV in Chicago. Adair remained at channel 8 
through July 1970, when he joined WKYC (channel 3), which was then owned 
by NBC. Later in 1964, WJW-TV was the first full CBS affiliate in Ohio, 
and the first Cleveland TV station, to start local color broadcasts. Following 
Daly's departure, Martin Ross became Adair's on-air news partner for the 
next three years, then teamed with Murray Stewart when Adair left. The 
duo worked together until Ross's death from cancer in April 1973. Jeff 
Maynor had filled in when Ross was undergoing treatment, and continued 
in that role for the next four months until Jim Hale teamed with Stewart 
beginning on September 11, 1973. Just over a year later, Stewart asked 
to be taken off the broadcast, citing health problems, and was later reassigned 
to the noon news, with Maynor taking his place on the nightly broadcast. 
Stewart committed suicide on August 3, 1976, overdosing on Nembutal in 
a suburban Cleveland motel. One of the most memorable programs produced 
by WJW-TV was the Friday late night horror movie hosted by "Ghoulardi", 
a character created by Ernie Anderson.[9] Wearing a bad fright wig and 
phony beard and a pair of sunglasses with only one lens, he interacted 
with the movies and created an on-going patter and rehearsed skits during 
the movie breaks. The program began on January 11, 1963 as "Shock Theater" 
and created a generation of fans who could recite catch phrases such as 
"Turn Blue", "Stay Sick", "Camera Four" and "Ova Dey." Before Ghoulardi, 
Anderson had a weekday morning program on channel 8 starting in 1961 called 
Ernie's Place with sidekick Tim Conway (then credited as "Tom Conway"), 
that included live skits reminiscent of Bob and Ray.[11] When Anderson 
left for lucrative voice-over work in Hollywood in September 1966, the 
Friday night movie slot was succeeded by The Hoolihan and Big Chuck Show—cohosted 
by Bob "Hoolihan" Wells, who did the station weather forecasts as "Hoolihan 
the Weatherman"; and Charles "Big Chuck" Schodowski, a station engineer 
who had risen to director and had appeared in some of Ghoulardi's skits. 
After Bob Wells departed channel 8 in September 1979, his position was 
filled by local jeweler and little person "Lil' John" Rinaldi, who had 
also previously performed in skits on the show. The program was renamed 
as the The Big Chuck and Lil' John Show, and it continued airing on Friday 
nights before moving to Saturday nights in the early 1990s. The show ended 
its run on June 16, 2007, as Chuck Schodowski retired after a 47-year career 
at channel 8. At the time of its conclusion, The Big Chuck and Lil' John 
Show had been the only locally produced television show in the Cleveland 
market that was primarily entertainment, that is not news or informational 
(Big Chuck & Lil' John have since made a comeback of sorts by hosting a 
new 30 minute program featuring their classic skits that began 9/10/11).[11] 
The station moved to its present studios at 5800 South Marginal Road on 
November 2, 1975. While WJW-FM (104.1 FM) was sold in the late 1960s, Storer 
kept WJW (850 AM) until late 1976. The AM station's new owners were allowed 
to keep the WJW call letters, forcing channel 8 to change theirs. At the 
time, the FCC did not allow radio and television stations with different 
owners to share the same base call letters—this is not the case today. 
As a result, channel 8 changed its callsign to WJKW-TV on April 22, 1977. 
The added "K" did not stand for anything.[9] At the same time, the station 
hired former WKYC-TV and NBC Radio news anchor Virgil Dominic as its news 
and public affairs director (a position which he held until 1983 when he 
became the general manager for WJKW/WJW until his retirement in 1995), 
and also began to pump considerable money into its news operation. The 
name of the newscasts even underwent a transition as well, going from City 
Camera News to Newscenter 8 around the summer of 1977. Within a year, channel 
8 had overtaken longtime leader WEWS as the highest-rated news station 
in Cleveland – a lead it kept for almost 20 years. On September 16, 1985, 
the station reacquired the WJW-TV callsign (eventually shortened to simply 
WJW), as WJW (850 AM) had changed its callsign following its own transfer 
of ownership.[9] After Storer Broadcasting was bought out by Kohlberg Kravis 
Roberts in 1985, the station underwent a series of ownership changes. KKR 
sold the stations to Gillett Communications in 1987; shortly thereafter, 
SCI Television was spun off from Gillett to take over the stations after 
Gillett's bankruptcy. New World Communications purchased WJW-TV and the 
other SCI Television stations in 1993. Like most of its sister stations, 
channel 8 pre-empted portions of the CBS schedule, usually the late morning 
daytime shows. In the 1990s, WJW-TV and its fellow New World stations prepared 
to launch their own morning newscasts, and as a result, channel 8 began 
to pre-empt CBS This Morning as well. The station also gained notoriety 
in 1993 by being one of the few CBS affiliates to tape-delay the Late Show 
with David Letterman by half an hour in favor of Murphy Brown reruns. Despite 
the preemptions, CBS was generally satisfied with WJW, which was one of 
the network's strongest affiliates. On September 3, 1994, as part of a 
deal between New World and the News Corporation, WJW-TV swapped affiliations 
with WOIO (channel 19), taking that station's Fox affiliation.[12] The 
station initially expanded its news production to over 40 hours a week, 
and through the years continued expanding, eventually reaching 65½ hours 
per week as of 2015.[13] Later that year, WJW dropped its "Newscenter 8" 
branding and adopted a hard-hitting format under the phrase "ei8ht is News" 
for the title of its newscasts (the "ei8ht" logo was itself a revival of 
an old WJW logo used from 1966 until 1977). Consequently, "Fox is ei8ht" 
was used by WJW as a generalized branding to promote the station's non-news 
programming, in particular, those offered through its new Fox affiliation. 
This accompanied a change in format for harder-edged news; viewers did 
not respond positively to either the format changes, or the constant branding 
reinforcement (to the point that a story in the Cleveland Plain Dealer 
was titled "Some viewers squawking that ei8ht is enough, already"). They 
instead turned to the more traditional WEWS; WKYC was likewise busy trying 
to find an audience after years of being used as NBC's farm system, while 
WOIO did not present much competition at all. The "ei8ht is News" branding 
ended upon Fox's purchase of the station, after which it was replaced by 
"Fox 8 News", which remains the current newscast title for the station 
today. One triumph for WJW was the morning newscast. Without a national 
morning show, WJW could produce an all-local 3.5 hour morning newscast. 
Many Cleveland viewers preferred the local show over the other stations' 
national broadcasts. This was especially true since WEWS' long-standing 
Morning Exchange was preempted until 9 a.m. around the same time of the 
Fox/CBS switch. With the exception of a brief period from late 1994 through 
late 1995 when it was titled Good Day Cleveland, Fox 8 News in the Morning 
has constantly been Cleveland's top rated morning newscast since the time 
of its debut. In 1997 Fox bought New World Communications, making WJW a 
Fox owned-and-operated station. Fox added stronger syndicated shows as 
well as stronger off-network sitcoms to the programming mix. In news programming, 
the station retook the top position from WEWS in 2001. By mid-2002, all 
of WJW's newscasts placed first. This continued until January 2004, when 
viewers began turning away from WJW's hard-hitting style to the more traditional 
WKYC-TV. Even Fox 8 in the Morning lost its top spot to WKYC's morning 
newscast for about two months. As a result of the overall decline, WJW 
replaced long time 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. lead anchors Wilma Smith and Tim 
Taylor with Bill Martin and Stacy Bell at 10 p.m., hoping the two would 
attract a younger audience to the program. The change paid off for channel 
8, and today its newscasts frequently rank number-one in the ratings. On 
December 22, 2007, the News Corporation announced that it had entered into 
an agreement to sell WJW-TV and seven other Fox-owned stations to Local 
TV LLC, a subsidiary of private equity firm Oak Hill Capital Partners.[14] 
The sale was closed on July 14, 2008. On February 1, 2012, WJW redesigned 
and relaunched its Web site using a format that's also used by the recently 
redesigned Web sites of its sister stations WDAF-TV in Kansas City and 
WITI in Milwaukee. The new Local TV sites are hosted by WordPress.com instead 
of Tribune Digital (renamed from Tribune Interactive). On July 1, 2013, 
Local TV announced that its stations would be acquired by Tribune Broadcasting.[15] 
The sale was completed on December 27.[16] During Fox ownership, WJW was 
the only (fully) network owned-and-operated station among the "Big 4" networks 
in the Cleveland area, and was the only Fox-owned station to carry a historic 
1920s three-letter call sign. It remains the only Fox television affiliate 
in existence, as well as one of three current Tribune-owned television 
stations (alongside Tribune flagship and independent station WGN-TV in 
Chicago, and NBC station WHO-TV in Des Moines), to carry such a three-letter 
call sign. The station's digital channel is multiplexed: WJW is an affiliate 
of Antenna TV, which is carried on digital subchannel 8.2.[13] Channel 
8.2 is also carried on several NE Ohio cable systems. WJW shut down its 
analog signal, over VHF channel 8, on June 12, 2009, the official date 
in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned 
from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate.[18] The station's 
digital signal relocated from its pre-transition UHF channel 31 to VHF 
channel 8.[19] The former temporary channel 31 transmitter has remained 
in a functional, though dormant state since the transition, and Tribune 
has donated the transmitter to the National Association of Broadcasters, 
which will be used to test the "Futurecast" ATSC 3.0 standard advanced 
by LG Corporation and GatesAir beginning in May 2015, and continuing on 
for six months, as WI9X3Y.[20][21] The transmitter remained active for 
the duration of the 2016 World Series, broadcasting the baseball games 
in 4K UHDTV to the Cleveland area using the ATSC 3.0 standard with Dolby 
AC-4 Audio (though the audio standard has not been completely finalized 
yet, with AC-4 and competitor MPEG-H as the remaining options for audio).[22] 
WJW presently broadcasts 67 hours of locally produced newscasts each week 
(with 11½ hours for weekdays, 4 hours on Saturday and 5½ hours on Sunday). 
Syndicated programming on WJW includes Judge Judy, Seinfeld, The Big Bang 
Theory, Two and a Half Men, and The Dr. Oz Show among others.[13] WJW-TV 
has long had the slogan of "Cleveland's Own", promoting how many of its 
on-air staff grew up in northeast Ohio and have been with the station for 
20 years or more.[23] For instance, Howard Hoffman was the first on-air 
voice heard at WXEL's sign-on in 1949. Handling a myriad of duties such 
as newscaster, weatherman and live booth announcer, Hoffman stayed at the 
station until October 1986. Hoffman's successor, Bill Ward, joined then-WJKW 
in 1984 and would serve as WJW's main booth announcer until March 2011. 
Cleveland City Hall beat reporter Bob Cerminara and field reporter Neil 
Zurcher, both of which joined WJW in the late 1960s, stayed until the early 
2000s. Zurcher is most famous for the "One Tank Trips" travel series that 
began in the late 1970s, highlighting vacation destinations close to home 
due to the energy crisis at that time (the feature continues to this day 
with different staffers, and Zurcher himself continues a similar feature 
biweekly in newspaper The Plain Dealer's Automotive advertising section, 
with an accompanying book series and weblog); he departed the station in 
August 2004.[24][25] Feature reporter Gary Stromberg had been with channel 
8 since 1977. He announced his retirement on April 1, 2008. Stromberg has 
since written two books. Aren't You That News Man? shares stories of his 
years at Channel 8. Every Tiger Has a Tale presents the life stories of 
48 amazing graduates of Cleveland Heights High over the decades. Sports 
anchor John Telich has been at WJW since 1981. In addition, Dick Goddard 
has been chief weatherman since 1966, joining the station after spending 
the previous five years at WKYC-TV, then known as KYW-TV. Following the 
reversal of a 1956 station swap with NBC, Westinghouse reacquired WRCV-TV 
in Philadelphia and moved the KYW-TV calls there. Goddard went along with 
nearly all of Westinghouse's former Cleveland staffers, but came back to 
Cleveland after only a few months. Goddard has said that he joined WJW-TV 
due to the fact that CBS carried Cleveland Browns games through its contract 
with the National Football League (rights to which were ironically lost 
to WKYC in 1970 upon the team's move to the AFC). Goddard later became 
the team's statistician, a position he held until 2011. On February 24, 
2011, Dick Goddard turned 80 years old. The station presented a special 
party live on air during the 6 p.m. newscast. On May 23, 2011, he marked 
50 years of being on the air in the Cleveland market. To honor that milestone, 
the street running in front of the WJW studios was renamed "Dick Goddard 
Way".[26] Tim Taylor joined WJW-TV as consumer reporter in the summer of 
1977, having been hired away from a similar role at WEWS. The following 
year, Taylor became Judd Hambrick's partner on the station's 6 and 11 p.m. 
evening newscasts. He was one of the station's top anchormen, serving alongside 
several female anchors (including Tana Carli, Denise D'Ascenzo, Robin Swoboda, 
Denise Dufala and Wilma Smith) until his retirement on December 23, 2005. 
Taylor's 27-year run as an anchor at WJW was the second longest in Cleveland 
television history, behind WEWS' Ted Henry. One month prior to Taylor's 
retirement, a special feature was broadcast during Fox 8 News in the Morning 
which reunited him with what was quoted as one of "Cleveland's most successful 
news teams" during the 1980s—Taylor, Swoboda, Goddard and former sports 
anchor Casey Coleman. In many people's eyes (as well as high ratings to 
back it up), this news team led Newscenter 8 to number one in the Cleveland 
market.[27] Taylor's replacement on the 6 p.m. newscast was Lou Maglio, 
another long-time Cleveland TV newsman.[28] In November 2006, it was announced 
that Robin Swoboda was returning once again to host a new hour-long show 
in the morning (originally titled That's Life, then known as The Robin 
Swoboda Show, which lasted from 2007-2011 before being revamped as New 
Day Cleveland with new hosts). In September 2007, Stefani Schaefer, also 
a popular Cleveland newscaster, returned to WJW to co-anchor the morning 
newscasts. In 2013, Wilma Smith retired after a 17-year stint as one of 
WJW's main anchors, and was replaced by Tracy McCool, herself a decade-plus 
