WLW (700 AM) – branded Newsradio 700 WLW – is a commercial news/talk radio 
station serving Greater Cincinnati. Owned by iHeartMedia, WLW is a 50,000-watt 
clear-channel station that covers much of the eastern half of North America 
at night. WLW serves as the Cincinnati affiliate for ABC News Radio and 
as a flagship station for the Cincinnati Bengals and Cincinnati Reds radio 
networks. It is also the home of radio personality Bill Cunningham. The 
WLW studios are located in Sycamore Township, while the station transmitter 
is located in Mason. Besides a standard analog transmission, WLW broadcasts 
over a single HD radio channel, and is available online via iHeartRadio.[10] 
In July 1921, radio manufacturer Powel Crosley Jr. began tests from his 
20-watt College Hill home "station", broadcasting "Song of India" continuously 
under the call sign 8CR.[2] Powell already owned a number of enterprises 
including the Crosmobile, and a refrigerator-freezer company. He owned 
the Cincinnati Reds baseball club from 1934 to 1961. Crosley was innovative, 
personally inventing, or funding the development of, many then–cutting 
edge technological advances related to his ventures. He placed these in 
the able hands of his younger brother (by two years) Lewis, who was a graduate 
engineer from the University of Cincinnati. On March 22, 1922,[2] Crosley 
and his Crosley Broadcasting Corporation began operating a commercially 
licensed, 50 watt station, under its current call sign, WLW. Crosley was 
a fanatic about the new broadcasting technology, and continually increased 
his station's capability. The power increased to 500 watts in September 
1922, and to 1000 watts in May 1924. In January 1925, WLW was the first 
5000 watt broadcasting station. On October 4, 1928, the station increased 
its power to 50 kilowatts.[2] It was the first station at this power level, 
which remains the maximum power allowed for any AM station in the United 
States. At 50 kilowatts, WLW was heard easily over a wide area from New 
York to Florida, but Crosley still was not satisfied. In 1933 he obtained 
a construction permit from the Federal Radio Commission for a 500 kilowatt 
superstation, and he spent some $500,000 ($9.16 million in 2016[11]) building 
the transmitter and antenna. It was the first large amplifier used in the 
United States for public, domestic radio broadcasting and was in operation 
between 1934 and 1939. It was an experimental amplifier, driven by the 
radio station's regular 50 kW transmitter. It operated in class C with 
high-level plate modulation. The amplifier required a dedicated 33 kV electrical 
substation and a large pond complete with fountains for cooling. It operated 
with a power input of about 750 kW (plus another 400 kW of audio for the 
modulator) and its output was 500 kW. In January 1934, WLW began broadcasting 
at the 500 kilowatt level late at night under the experimental call sign 
W8XO. In April 1934 the station was authorized to operate at 500 kilowatts 
during regular hours under the WLW call letters. On May 2, 1934, President 
Franklin D. Roosevelt pressed a ceremonial button that officially launched 
WLW's 500-kilowatt signal.[12] As the first station in the world to broadcast 
at this strength, WLW received repeated complaints from around the United 
States and Canada that it was overpowering other stations as far away as 
Toronto. In December 1934, WLW cut back to 50 kilowatts at night to mitigate 
the interference, and began construction of two shorter towers a quarter 
wave length high, a half wave length apart, and 1850 feet (560 m) southwest 
from the main tower. This adequately reduced the signal strength broadcast 
towards Canada. The two shorter towers were fed 85kw at 96 degrees out 
of phase with the signal to null in the opposite direction they were from 
the main Blaw-Knox tower. With these antenna towers in place, full-time 
broadcasting at 500 kilowatts resumed in early 1935. However, WLW was continuing 
to operate under special temporary authority that had to be renewed every 
six months; each renewal brought complaints about interference, and undue 
domination of the market, by such a high-power station. The FCC was having 
second thoughts about permitting extremely wide-area broadcasting versus 
more locally oriented stations. In 1938 the US Senate adopted the "Wheeler 
Resolution" which said that allowing more stations with power in excess 
of 50 kilowatts would be against the public interest. As a result, in 1939, 
WLW's 500-kilowatt broadcast authorization was not renewed bringing an 
end to the era of the AM radio superstation.[13] Because of the impending 
war, and the possible need for national broadcasting in an emergency, the 
W8XO experimental license for 500 kilowatts remained in effect until December 
29, 1942. In 1962 the Crosley Broadcasting Corporation again applied for 
a permit to operate at 750 kilowatts, but the FCC denied the application. 
Many reports have surfaced over the years, from those who lived near the 
500 kilowatt transmitter, of power fluctuations. Residents would see their 
lights flicker in time to the modulation peaks of the transmitter. It was 
widely reported that the signal was so overpowering some people picked 
up WLW radio on the metal coils of mattress and boxed bedsprings,[14] similar 
to KDKA in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Arcing often occurred near the transmission 
site.[15] In the 1930s, WLW occupied the entire 48th floor of Carew Tower. 
In 1942, the station moved its studios into the Crosley Square building, 
a converted Elks Lodge No. 5 in downtown Cincinnati.[16] WLW's sister television 
station, WLWT (then branded WLW-T), was founded in the same building. In 
1955, WLW and WLWT became the first radio and television station to own 
a weather radar.[17] Crosley sold the station Aviation Corporation of the 
Americas in 1945, earning a handsome return on his original investment 
of a quarter-century earlier. However, the Crosley name was so well respected 
that Avco retained it for its broadcast division until 1968. A major promotion 
of the station in the 1940s was the Boone County Jamboree. An ad in the 
trade publication Billboard in 1942 noted: "WLW Boone County Jamboree acts 
played to 169,406 persons, July 4 to October 4. An all time record–63 bookings 
in seven States. New attendance records established at 14 events."[18] 
Avco began exiting broadcasting in 1975. WLW was one of the last properties 
to be sold in 1976. From that point until the 1990s, WLW had different 
owners, including Queen City Communications, Mariner Communications, Seven 
Hills Broadcasting, and Jacor Communications, before Jacor merged with 
Clear Channel Communications (now known as iHeartMedia). From the late 
1970s to 1989, WLW's studios were located downtown at 3 East 4th Street, 
now the site of the National City Bank (now PNC) Tower in downtown Cincinnati. 
From 1989 to 2005, WLW was located in Mt. Adams, a trendy neighborhood 
overlooking downtown. The address remained 1111 St. Gregory Street. WLW 
was originally on the fourth floor, where it shared studios with sister 
station WEBN. In 1992, as Jacor started to consolidate stations, the fifth 
floor was taken over by the human resources and traffic departments, along 
with new studios for 550 WLWA, formerly WKRC. In 1995, Jacor moved all 
of its stations into the Mt. Adams facility leasing the entire building. 
Along with other Clear Channel talk stations, WLW switched from ABC News 
Radio to Fox News Radio.[19] However, on June 26, 2006, a realignment of 
network affiliations by Clear Channel's Cincinnati AM stations reunited 
WLW with ABC News Radio. (WKRC picked up Fox News Radio[citation needed], 
while WCKY took CBS Radio.)[20] Not included in the rearrangement was ABC 
Radio commentator Paul Harvey. WLW continued to carry Harvey's commentaries 
through all the changes, although after extended absences, Harvey was dropped 
by WLW in April 2008. WLW currently broadcasts using 50,000 watts of power, 
the maximum allowed for an AM clear channel broadcaster under current FCC 
rules. The high power broadcasts led WLW to call itself "The Nation's Station". 
WLW also broadcasts using the HD-Radio digital system. Like other stations 
owned by iHeartMedia, WLW uses the iHeartRadio platform to stream its webcast. 
For a time in the early 1960s, WLW called itself the world's highest fidelity 
radio station. After sundown, the 50 kW signal can be heard across much 
of the eastern half of the United States and Canada. It is believed WLW 
can be heard, regularly, in at least 38 U.S. states at night,[21] and the 
station refers to this in some advertising. Its daytime signal can be heard 
at city-grade strength as far east as Columbus, as far west as the Indianapolis 
suburbs, and as far south as Frankfort, Kentucky. It provides at least 
secondary coverage to most of Ohio and Indiana, and much of northern and 
central Kentucky. Under the right conditions, it can be picked up as far 
away as Cleveland and Chicago. In 1985 overnight host Dale Sommers received 
a call from Hawaii on his overnight program. The station's first 50 kW 
transmitter, made by Western Electric, is still functional at 83 years 
of age and sees occasional service, including on December 31, 1999, when 
it was powered up and helped to bring WLW into the new year on January 
1, 2000.[2] The station's unusual diamond-shaped antenna (designed and 
erected by Blaw-Knox Tower company) is one of eight still operational in 
the United States (the second to be built after WSM's) and is featured 
on the official seal of the City of Mason. Although Crosley also owned 
the Cincinnati Reds along with WLW from 1934 to 1945, WLW didn't become 
the Reds' flagship station until 1969, a status it has retained ever since. 
Over the years, WLW has also been the flagship for Cincinnati Bengals football, 
University of Cincinnati football and basketball, Xavier University basketball, 
and the games of the Cincinnati Royals (now the Sacramento Kings) of the 
National Basketball Association. In 2013, the Cincinnati Enquirer announced 
that WLW had purchased an FM translator from the Northern Kentucky University 
for an FM simulcast, and moved it to Port Union, Ohio.[22] The station 
is W233BG on 94.5, operating at 120 watts. This would later be moved to 
Cincinnati, drop power to 99 watts, and switch to repeating WKFS-HD2. From 
March 1, 2006 to March 6, 2009 WLW was simulcast live on XM Satellite Radio 
channel 173. This delay-free broadcast gave the station a signal that reached 
the continental United States. Excluded from the simulcast was Cincinnati 
Bengals play-by-play coverage, as the station did not own the rights to 
broadcast nationally. However, college sport play-by-play from the Xavier 
Musketeers and the Cincinnati Bearcats was broadcast on XM, as were Cincinnati 
Reds games (as XM had purchased the rights to Major League Baseball separately). 
The station was placed on the satellites by then Clear Channel programming 
executive Sean Compton (brother of WLW personality Steve Sommers), who 
claimed WLW was his favorite radio station. Compton left the company in 
2008 for the Tribune Company, and shortly after WLW was dropped from XM. 
The station claims many well-known alumni, including: Jack Berch,[23] Mary 
Jane Croft,[24] Merle Travis, Doris Day, Rosemary Clooney, Ruth Lyons, 
Bob Braun, Wally Phillips, Jean Shepherd, NBC sportscasters Cris Collinsworth 
and Al Michaels, "Sportstalk" host Bob Trumpy, Dale Sommers (better known 
as the "Truckin' Bozo"), J. R. Gach, Gary Burbank (comedy talk host, impressionist, 
and creator of the nationally syndicated Earl Pitts monologues) and former 
Clear Channel radio CEO Randy Michaels. Rod Serling, the creator of the 
classic TV series The Twilight Zone, worked for WLW from 1947 to 1948[25] 
producing historical documentaries, community profiles and commercials, 
before leaving to pursue other opportunities in the broadcasting industry. 
Bill Nimmo, who later served as Johnny Carson's sidekick on the show Who 
Do You Trust? and its predecessor Do You Trust Your Wife?, also worked 
at WLW beginning in 1947. WLW airs a nearly entirely locally produced talk 
format, and is the flagship station for Live on Sunday Night with Bill 
Cunningham. Cunningham also hosts a weekday program on the station.[26] 
Live on Sunday Night with Bill Cunningham is syndicated by Premiere Networks. 
Other notable personalities on the station include morning host Mike McConnell, 
afternoon host Tracy Jones, and evening host Rocky Boiman. WLW is the flagship 
radio station for the Cincinnati Reds Radio Network and a co-flagship station 
for the Cincinnati Bengals football team. The station also broadcasts Cincinnati 
Bearcats and Xavier Musketeers games. WLW has a 24-hour local news department 
and is affiliated with ABC News Radio. Until 2015, WLW was also associated 
with Raycom Media's WXIX-TV.[27] WLW was also affiliated with Paul Harvey 
until May 2008. ¹ = Clear-channel stations with extended nighttime coverage. 
