WMCA (570 AM) is an AM radio station in New York City, owned by Salem Media 
Group and broadcasting with a Christian radio format consisting of teaching 
and talk programs. The station's studios are in Lower Manhattan and are 
shared with co-owned WNYM (970 AM). WMCA's transmitters are located along 
Belleville Turnpike in Kearny, New Jersey.[1] The station's daytime coverage 
includes New York City and portions of Long Island and the lower Hudson 
Valley in New York State, as well as parts of New Jersey and Connecticut.[2] 
Prior to switching to its current programming in 1989, WMCA's best-known 
incarnations were as a locally programmed talk radio outlet during the 
1970s and 1980s; and before that as a Top 40 outlet featuring its lineup 
of disc jockeys, known as the "Good Guys". WMCA is credited with having 
been the first New York radio station to broadcast a recording by the Beatles.[3] 
After first testing as station 2XH, WMCA began regular transmissions on 
February 1, 1925, broadcasting on 428.6 meters wavelength (700 kHz) with 
a power of 500 watts. The station was the 13th radio station to begin operations 
in New York City and was owned by broadcasting pioneer Donald Flamm.[4] 
The station's original studios and antenna were atop the Hotel McAlpin, 
located on Herald Square and from which WMCA's call letters derive.[5] 
In 1928 it moved to the 570 kHz frequency, sharing time for the next three 
years with municipally-owned WNYC.[6] On April 19, 1932, the Federal Radio 
Commission approved WMCA's application to broadcast full-time on 570 kHz.[7] 
In December 1940, Flamm had to surrender the station to industrialist Edward 
J. Noble, who had just resigned as Undersecretary of Commerce, in a transaction 
involving prominent political figures including Thomas Corcoran. Flamm's 
subsequent legal battle against Noble resulted in a congressional investigation 
and eventually ended in a financial settlement, though not the return of 
the station. Through its early decades WMCA had a varied programming history, 
playing music, hosting dramas, and broadcasting New York Giants baseball 
games. In 1943, it was acquired by the Straus family when Edward J. Noble 
acquired the Blue Network and its owned-and-operated stations from NBC, 
including WJZ (now WABC) in New York; the Blue Network would later be renamed 
the American Broadcasting Company (ABC). In 1945, host Barry Gray began 
dropping music and adding talk with celebrities and later call-in listeners; 
he is thus sometimes considered "The Father of Talk Radio", and his show 
lasted on WMCA through several decades and format changes. WMCA began playing 
hit music in the late 1950s with a Top 40 format. Among its disc jockey 
staff were future legends Scott Muni, Frankie Crocker, Harry Harrison and 
Murray "the K" Kaufman. In 1960, WMCA began promoting itself by stressing 
its on-air personalities, who were collectively known as the Good Guys. 
Led by program director Ruth Meyer, the first woman to hold the position 
in New York City radio,[8][9] this was the era of the high-profile Top 
40 disc jockey with an exuberant personality aimed at a certain audience 
segment. With the advent of the Good Guys format, WMCA became more "on 
top" of new music and started to become known for "playing the hits." In 
the early 1960s, the top 40 format was still young, and the field was crowded 
in New York City. Two major 50,000-watt stations, WMGM (frequency now occupied 
by WEPN) and WINS, had battled each other, playing pop music for years. 
Then in 1960, WABC joined the fray and started featuring top 40 music. 
Ultimately, it was WMCA's earnest competition with rival WABC that forced 
WMGM (in early 1962) and then WINS (in spring 1965) to abandon the top-40 
format. There was so much attention on the high-profile WMCA-WABC battle 
that WMGM and WINS were each summarily forced to find a new niche. The 
classic Good Guys era lineup included: (On Friday nights, Stevens ended 
at 10:30 and WMCA's locally produced, half-hour news show The World Tonite 
aired; this was a local recap of the week's news, and should not be confused 
with Garner Ted Armstrong's The World Tomorrow religious program, which 
was not heard on WMCA until after the Good Guys era ended). Dan Daniel's 
countdown changed once a week, and was of the station's top 25 records. 
It also included a "Sure Shot" and "Long Shot" of records not yet on the 
chart. He also gave away his "Hit Kit" every day to a listener who had 
been chosen from postcards sent to the station. The "Hit Kit" consisted 
of a copy of each of the Top 25 records of the week. To claim this prize, 
listeners had to call in when they heard their name read on the air. Besides 
the "Good Guy" personalities and radio program director Ruth Meyer's commitment 
to play new music, on December 26, 1963, WMCA, with Jack Spector, earned 
the distinction of being the first New York City radio station to play 
the Beatles' Capitol Records' single, "I Want to Hold Your Hand".[3] (Outside 
New York, the song's broadcast debut in America is widely accepted to have 
occurred earlier at WWDC in Washington, D.C.) There is no evidence that 
any New York City radio station played the Beatles before December 1963 
– despite the fact that the band's first singles had been released earlier 
– without fanfare – by smaller, resource-challenged labels (Vee-Jay Records 
and Swan Records). However, according to one account, WINS "reportedly" 
played the band's Swan Records single "She Loves You" on September 28, 
1963, as part of a listener's poll. After the song finished last (third 
place), it was quickly dropped from the station's playlist.[11] WMCA was 
keen on playing new product and breaking new hits, and consequently, it 
became the radio station most credited for introducing Beatlemania – and 
the "British Invasion" musical movement – to New Yorkers. Not only did 
WMCA play new music first for New York City listeners, but the Good Guys 
played more music in general, i.e., more hits per hour. While network-owned 
WABC was busy broadcasting New York Mets baseball games in the summer of 
1963, family-owned WMCA was the music-intensive station that one would 
hear coming out of transistor radios at the pool and at the beach. Starting 
in 1963, the WMCA's Good Guys soared to the top of New York City's ratings 
charts. WMCA also focused on on-air production and promotions for listeners. 
Each hour, WMCA presented its music, jingles, promotions, contests, stagers 
and commercials in a tight, upbeat style that – to the ear of anyone switching 
between WMCA and competitor WABC – made WMCA's tempo and pacing sound faster. 
Some radio industry veterans attribute WABC's "stodgy sound" to standards 
applied by its owner, the ABC Radio Network – and to its staff of longtime 
(and older) studio engineers. This fueled speculation that WMCA – which 
was independently owned by the Straus family – had younger, more "hip" 
board-operators with a better understanding of the top 40 format aimed 
at younger adults. Whatever the reason, the "sparkling sound" presented 
on-air by WMCA also contributed to its ratings success in New York City, 
the largest radio market in the United States. WMCA's most famous promotions 
and contests involved the Beatles. Shortly after the band's arrival in 
the United States on February 7, 1964, WMCA was able to secure the Beatles' 
cooperation, recording several commercials promoting the station's "Good 
Guys."[12] Many believe this cooperation was directly linked to the band's 
awareness of WMCA being the first radio station in New York City to play 
the Beatles' records, starting with their Capitol Records' release of "I 
Want to Hold Your Hand" in late December 1963. According to industry observers, 
WMCA's success getting John Lennon and Ringo Starr to record several spots 
on behalf of WMCA – convinced listeners that the station – along with former 
WMCA personality "Murray the K" Kaufman at WINS – had direct access to 
the Beatles, despite the fact that during their first New York visit – 
the band's movements were restricted to the Plaza Hotel, Central Park, 
the Ed Sullivan Theater (then called CBS Studio 50), the 21 Club, the Peppermint 
Lounge and Carnegie Hall. In conjunction with airing commercials featuring 
the Beatles actively promoting WMCA, the station also ran several contests 
in February 1964 – the most famous receiving nearly 90,000 entries – for 
a chance to win a lock of hair belonging to drummer Ringo Starr.[14] The 
lock of Ringo Starr's hair – and a runner-up prize of a photograph on a 
fan club card signed by all four members of the Beatles – were obtained 
directly from the group on February 10, 1964 – during marathon "one-on-one" 
meetings and a reception held with print and broadcast personnel in the 
Terrace and Baroque Rooms at New York's famous Plaza Hotel.[15] Other runner-up 
prizes distributed by WMCA that were not directly handled by the Beatles 
included 1,000 specially made WMCA paper record sleeves picturing the Good 
Guys – containing the band's single, "I Want to Hold Your Hand", as well 
as $57 in cash from Radio 57, WMCA. Contrary to some accounts, the enormous 
number of entries received by WMCA – an estimated 86,000 cards, letters 
and packages – were from Beatle fans seeking to win a lock of Ringo Starr's 
hair – and not $57 in cash nor even a Beatles record.[14][16] For this 
"Good Guy-Ringo Starr Contest" – better known today as the "Beatles' Wig 
Contest" – WMCA's listeners were encouraged to send in a drawing or picture 
of a person – wearing a Beatles' wig. The winning entry from Roberta Corrigan 
– (who won the lock of hair) – featured a huge image of Queen Elizabeth 
with a Beatles wig on her head, along with several other images including 
one of former British Prime Minister Winston Churchill wearing the same 
– all submitted in a book with captions for each.[17] Runner-up winner 
Stella Scuotto of Brooklyn, New York, won the photograph of the Beatles 
on a fan club card signed by all four members of the band at the Plaza 
Hotel.[18] According to Beatles' historian Bruce Spizer, Kay Smith was 
also a runner-up winner, winning $57 and the rare record sleeve for "I 
Want to Hold Your Hand", featuring a picture of WMCA's Good Guys.[19] Throughout 
the 1960s, WMCA would continue to beat other radio stations on most Beatles' 
promotions, scoring firsts, causing headaches in particular for rival WABC 
– most notably when Capitol Records printed a photograph of the "Good Guys" 
line-up – on the back of a limited edition record sleeve for the single, 
"I Want to Hold Your Hand" (Side 2: "I Saw Her Standing There"). WMCA's 
Good Guys were also featured at both of the Beatles' concerts at Shea Stadium, 
on August 15, 1965 and on August 23, 1966. WABC responded in different 
ways, scoring a success during the Beatles' second New York visit in August 
1964 – when the band stayed at the Delmonico Hotel, rousing thousands of 
teenage fans into a frenzy – while broadcasting from one floor above the 
Beatles' rooms.[20] WABC later went against its own music policies, promising 
promoter Sid Bernstein that it would play a new group he was handling before 
any other New York City radio station – if it could get exclusive access 
to the Beatles. WABC never added records "out of the box" – but it did 
for Sid Bernstein when it played The Young Rascals' "I Ain't Going To Eat 
Out My Heart Anymore" – before other radio stations. Since WABC knew WMCA 
already had a relationship with the Beatles, with tapes of the group promoting 
the station – what could WABC do to achieve the same? In August 1965, WABC 
came up with what it thought was a brilliant idea – issuing "medals" called 
"The Order of the All-Americans" – tied to its own DJs.[21] The strategy 
was to present the medals to each of the Beatles the next time they were 
in New York. Everything was set. The goal was to get each Beatle to comment 
on the "medal" – and then to get each to say the station's call letters, 
"W-A-B-C." These in turn could be used in station IDs and promotions, etc. 
– thus matching WMCA's success at getting the Beatles to promote WMCA and 
its Good Guys. But WABC's plan backfired. The station got its interviews, 
but none of the band's members would utter WABC's call letters. According 
to Beatles' historian Bruce Spizer, manager Brian Epstein ordered the Beatles 
to stop "giving away valuable promotional spots to radio stations for free."[22] 
Apart from its historic link to the Beatles, WMCA saturated its programming 
with many other promotions and on-air games – to supplement its high rotation 
of hit-making music. It included "Name It and Claim It" – with the most 
desired prize being one of the station's yellow "Good Guys" sweatshirts, 
which were designed by WMCA program director Ruth Meyer[23] – and could 
be won if a listener's name was read over the air – and that listener called 
PLaza 2-9944 within a certain time period. Another distinctive feature 
of WMCA was its "Call For Action" Help Line (PLaza 9-1717), which listeners 
could call if they had any problems requiring WMCA's help resolving, usually 
consumer or public works service-related issues. In the 1960s, WMCA's great 
competition was with rival WABC. Despite WMCA's superior ratings performance 
and its historic link to the Beatles, some radio historians have treated 
WMCA as a 1960s radio stepchild–the proverbial David going up against the 
Goliath that was corporate-owned, stronger-signaled WABC. For four consecutive 
years (1963 through 1966) WMCA had the highest ratings share of all radio 
stations in New York City, according to Arbitron–in spite of its directional, 
5,000-watt signal which geographically reached about one-third of the audience 
ratings area of non-directional, 50,000-watt WABC. WMCA's ratings strength 
was concentrated within New York City itself, along with the suburban areas 
immediately north and east. However, WABC proved more popular in outlying 
areas where WMCA's signal didn't come in as well on standard 1960s-era 
AM radio receivers. The areas where WMCA did not have a strong signal were 
southwest, west, and northwest of its transmitter in Kearny, New Jersey. 
By 1967 and 1968, WMCA still demonstrated a strong showing in total audience 
surveys, and as late as February 1969, Pulse ratings surveys showed that 
WMCA continued to best WABC in New York City. In addition to its ratings 
strength, between 1964 and 1968, Billboard magazine rated WMCA as New York's 
most influential station for new records. Although every market had one 
station with record-buying influence, WMCA was in the top market, making 
it responsible for many of the hits from that era becoming staples of the 
modern-day classic hits format. Not every record added to the WMCA playlist 
became a hit, but as soon as sales stirred, late-comer WABC would be forced 
to add the same record. On a related note, WMCA continued to play new records 
faster than rival WABC. WMCA's weekly countdown list was 25 records long–instead 
of WABC's 20–and included the "Sure Shot" and "Long Shot" speculations. 
WMCA's countdown was also "faster" than WABC's, in the sense that records 
climbed to the top more quickly, while WABC's rankings tended to lag behind. 
A comparison of both stations showed WABC to be up to two, sometimes three 
weeks behind WMCA. The WMCA-WABC rivalry was never more intense than when 
it came to fighting over the Beatles. WABC was frustrated with its efforts 
to gain ratings dominance in New York City's metro area and with its efforts 
to forge a stronger relationship with one of the world's most popular musical 
acts. WMCA program director Ruth Meyer would later speculate in interviews 
that WABC's creativity during the 1960s could have been hampered by being 
owned by an ABC network rife with nationwide broadcast policies, commitments 
and standards.[24] Conversely, WMCA could run free with "goofy" ideas, 
promotions and gimmicks as an independently run, family-owned station, 
without network interference.[9] According to WABC historians, "another 
success for WMCA was the fault of WABC itself." In 1969 WABC overnight 
host Roby Yonge, upon learning his contract with the station was not going 
to be renewed, used his shift to spread rumors about the "death" of Paul 
McCartney.[25] This episode proved to be an embarrassment for WABC, leading 
to Yonge's firing, and WABC's status as a network-owned, clear-channel 
station errantly launched the "Paul is Dead" story across state lines and 
ultimately around the world. As WMCA recorded large New York City audience 
numbers, any city-based competitor would and did become part of the radio 
ratings' discussion. While WMCA continued to beat WABC directly, its eventual 
ratings overall slippage wasn't due to WABC. The ascendance of soul station 
WWRL in 1967 and of two progressive rock stations—WOR-FM (now WEPN-FM) 
in 1967 and WNEW-FM (now WWFS) in 1968—ultimately took an average of six 
rating points away from WMCA. In 1968, a chaotic period began in which 
Gary Stevens disappeared[clarification needed] to Switzerland and Harry 
Harrison moved to WABC, where he replaced Herb Oscar Anderson as its morning 
host. WMCA then started experimenting with some talk programming as part 
of "Power Radio", with hosts ranging from Domenic Quinn to countercultural 
Alex Bennett. The station also began playing album cuts in addition to 
singles, with the slogan "The hits and the heavies." Disc jockeys left, 
came back, and left again in short order. New jocks appeared with vague 
names (e.g., Lee Gray was originally "Lee Your Leader") and various stunts 
were performed; for example Frankie Crocker, who was lured away from WWRL 
as the station's first Black personality (before later pioneering the urban 
contemporary format at WBLS), played two very short songs over and over 
again for an hour. The "Good Guys" were partly reassembled, then dropped 
again. Even reliable Dean Anthony, who was concurrently working at a country 
music station, sometimes got all the slogans mixed up on air.[citation 
needed] The station finally adopted a full-time talk radio format labelled 
"Dial-Log Radio" in 1970 and the "Good Guys" music era was over, however 
the "Good Guy" theme eventually did make a comeback in a promotional marketing 
effort. When WMCA acquired New York Yankees baseball broadcast rights in 
1971, Jack Spector stayed on to host a sports talk show, while Bob Grant 
debuted in New York radio as the house conservative and "Long John" Nebel 
was a fixture on overnights, accompanied by his co-host spouse Candy Jones. 
Malachy McCourt hosted a Sunday night call-in show that was mostly personal 
reminisces of the type that later became the subject of the best-selling 
autobiography Angela's Ashes, by his brother Frank McCourt. In 1972, John 
Sterling succeeded Spector as sports talk host, transforming the program 
into one of the first confrontational sports talks shows, as well as doing 
play-by-play for New York Islanders hockey and New York Nets basketball 
games that were carried on WMCA. It was there that his knowledgeable but 
bombastic and over-the-top broadcasting style would first be heard in the 
New York area. WMCA carried Yankees games until 1977; they then held the 
broadcast rights for the New York Mets from 1978 through 1983. The station 
introduced a new morning news-talk program, hosted by Ralph Howard, Bill 
Ryan and a team of reporters who were all referred to as the "Good Guys", 
as seen in this ad for the Ralph & Ryan show. During the 1970s, ratings 
were healthy for WMCA as a talk station. Jonathan King, who had been at 
the top of the Good Guys chart in 1965 with his single "Everyone's Gone 
To The Moon", hosted the weekday midday show for a year in 1981. Most surveys 
showed the station in the top 10. This was before WOR became exclusively 
talk, and also before WABC changed to talk in the early 1980s. The Straus 
family sold the station in the late 1980s; it was the last family-owned 
radio station in New York. New owner Federal Broadcasting kept the talk 
format, however switched to a financial news format on weekdays between 
5:00 am and 7:00 pm, just prior to selling the station in April 1989 to 
Salem Communications, which immediately implemented a format that focused 
on religion and leased time programming.[26] At that time, all WMCA staffers 
were invited to apply for positions with the "new" WMCA. Federal Broadcasting 
eventually sold off their other stations and left the broadcasting business. 
Since September 16, 1989, WMCA has been airing a Christian radio format, 
typical for Salem Communications. Initially it had the slogan "New York's 
Christian Radio", later changed to "New York's Inspiring Talk". Salem retained 
just one of the station's just-deposed on-air hosts, Sonny Bloch. WMCA 
ran extra Christian programming on WWDJ (970 AM), licensed to nearby Hackensack, 
New Jersey and purchased by Salem Communications in 1993. This second station 
was publicly billed as "WMCA II" or "WMCA 970" until its calls were changed 
to WNYM and it adopted a conservative-leaning talk format in 2008. In recent 
years,[when?] WMCA has attempted to establish a connection back to its 
"Good Guys" era. Their website has a tribute to the 1960s jocks [1], while 
their current air personalities—"a whole new team of 'Good Guys' filling 
the airwaves with the Good News"—make appearances and give out an updated 
version of the Good Guys sweatshirt [2]. On air, the station uses its 1960s-era 
"Good Guys" jingles for station identification, program promos and transition 
between songs when music is scheduled. This ended in January 2015 when 
WMCA was rechristined as The Mission, a new corporate branding effort which 
Salem plans to expand throughout its group of Christian talk stations. 
In September 2016 WMCA became the New York City affiliate of Army football. 
The station also airs IMG College-produced broadcasts of St. John's University 
basketball, sharing flagship responsibilities with WNYM. WMCA carried a 
limited schedule of University at Buffalo football games in 2014 and 2015. 
After leaving the Hotel McAlpin in 1938, WMCA moved its studios to various 
locations in midtown Manhattan, eventually settling in at 888 Seventh Avenue. 
Not long after taking control of WMCA in 1990, new owner Salem Communications 
relocated the station to New Jersey; its facilities were based in Teaneck, 
Rutherford, and Hasbrouck Heights at different points.[27] In December 
2013 WMCA returned to New York City, moving from Hasbrouck Heights into 
a new shared facility with WNYM (in the former studios of WOR) on Broadway 
in lower Manhattan. New Jersey Devils on WMCA Flagship station Overflow 
station 1 = Clear-channel stations with extended nighttime coverage. 2= 
Stations share time on the frequency. 3= Station is licensed to a community 
in their respective sub market (e.g. New Jersey), but transmits from atop 
the Empire State Building or Freedom Tower. Coordinates: 40°45′10″N 74°06′15″W﻿ 
