WNBC, channel 4, is the East Coast and main flagship station of the NBC 
Television Network, located in New York City. WNBC is owned by the NBCUniversal 
Owned Television Stations group, and operates as part of a television duopoly 
with Linden, New Jersey-licensed Telemundo owned-and-operated station WNJU 
(channel 47); both are owned by Comcast subsidiary NBCUniversal, which 
also holds a minority stake in regional sports network SportsNet New York. 
WNBC's studios are co-located with NBC's corporate headquarters at 30 Rockefeller 
Plaza in midtown Manhattan, and its transmitter atop the Empire State Building. 
WNBC also currently rents space on the 90th floor of One World Trade Center. 
The station is the oldest fully–licensed television station in continuous 
operation in the United States. In the few areas of the eastern United 
States where an NBC station is not receivable over-the-air, WNBC is available 
on satellite via DirecTV and Dish Network (the latter carries the station 
as part of All American Direct's distant network package), which also provides 
coverage of the station to Latin American and Caribbean countries. It is 
also carried on certain cable providers in markets where an NBC affiliate 
is not available, on LiveTV and Dish Network. DirecTV also allows subscribers 
in the Los Angeles market to receive WNBC for an additional monthly fee.[1] 
What is now WNBC traces its history to experimental station W2XBS, founded 
by the Radio Corporation of America (a co-founder of the National Broadcasting 
Company), in 1928, just two years after NBC was founded as the first nationwide 
radio network. Originally a test bed for the experimental RCA Photophone 
theater television system, W2XBS used the low-definition mechanical television 
scanning system, and later was used mostly for reception and interference 
tests. The call letters W2XBS meant W2XB-south, with W2XB being the call 
letters of the first experimental station, started a few months earlier 
at General Electric's main factory in Schenectady, New York, which evolved 
into today's WRGB. GE was the parent company of both RCA and NBC, and technical 
research was done at the Schenectady plant. The station originally broadcast 
on the frequencies of 2.0 to 2.1 megahertz. In 1929, W2XBS upgraded its 
transmitter and broadcast facilities to handle transmissions of sixty vertical 
lines at twenty frames per second, on the frequencies of 2.75 to 2.85 megahertz. 
In 1928, Felix the Cat was one of the first images ever broadcast by television 
when RCA chose a papier-mâché (later Bakelite) Felix doll for an experimental 
broadcast on W2XBS. The doll was chosen for its tonal contrast and its 
ability to withstand the intense lights needed in early television and 
was placed on a rotating phonograph turntable and televised for about two 
hours each day. The doll remained on the turntable for nearly a decade 
as RCA fine-tuned the picture's definition, and converted to electronic 
television.[2] The station left the air sometime in 1933 as RCA turned 
its attention to all-electronic cathode ray tube (CRT) television research 
at its Camden, New Jersey facility, under the leadership of Dr. Vladimir 
K. Zworykin. In 1935, the all-electronic CRT system was authorized as a 
"field test" project and NBC converted a radio studio in the RCA Building 
(now the Comcast Building) in New York City's Rockefeller Center for television 
use. In mid-1936, small-scale, irregularly scheduled programming began 
to air to an audience of some 75 receivers in the homes of high-level RCA 
staff, and a dozen or so sets in a closed circuit viewing room in 52nd-floor 
offices of the RCA Building. The viewing room often hosted visiting organizations 
or corporate guests, who saw a live program produced in the studios many 
floors below. Viewership of early NBC broadcasts was tightly restricted 
to those authorized by the company, whose installed set base eventually 
reached about 200. Technical standards for television broadcasting were 
in flux as well. Between the time experimental transmissions began in 1935 
and the beginning of commercial television service in 1941, picture definition 
increased from 343 to 441 lines, and finally (in 1941) to the 525-line 
standard used for analog television from the start of full commercial service 
until the end of analog broadcasts in mid-2009. The sound signal also was 
changed from AM to FM, and the spacing of sound and vision carriers was 
also changed several times. Shortly after NBC began a semi-regular television 
transmission schedule in 1938, DuMont Laboratories announced TV sets for 
sale to the public, a move that RCA was saving for the opening of the World's 
Fair on April 30, 1939, the day that regularly scheduled television programming 
was to begin in New York on NBC with much fanfare. In response, NBC ceased 
all TV broadcasting for several weeks until RCA sets went on sale and regular 
NBC telecasts commenced the day the fair opened. As W2XBS broadcasting 
on "Channel 1" (44-50 MHz), the station scored numerous "firsts", including 
the first televised Broadway drama (June 1938), live news event covered 
by mobile unit (a fire in an abandoned building in November 1938), live 
telecast of a Presidential speech (Franklin D. Roosevelt opening the 1939 
New York World's Fair),[3] the first live telecasts of college and Major 
League Baseball (both in 1939), the first telecast of a National Football 
League game (also in 1939), the first telecast of a National Hockey League 
game (early 1940), and the first network telecast of a political convention 
(the 1940 Republican National Convention, held June 24–28 in the Philadelphia 
Civic Center), and the broadcast of the feature film The Crooked Circle 
on June 18, 1940.[4] But in August 1940, W2XBS transmissions were temporarily 
put on hold, as "Channel 1" was reassigned by the FCC to 50-56 MHz and 
technical adjustments needed to be made for the conversion. The station 
returned to the air in October, just in time to broadcast Franklin D. Roosevelt's 
second and final appearance on live television, when his speech at Madison 
Square Garden on October 28, 1940 was telecast over W2XBS.[5] On June 24, 
1941, W2XBS received a commercial license under the calls WNBT (for "NBC 
Television"), thus becoming one of the first two fully licensed commercial 
television stations in the United States, along with CBS' W2XAB on channel 
2, which became WCBW (today's WCBS-TV). The NBC and CBS stations were licensed 
and instructed to sign on simultaneously on July 1 so that neither of the 
major broadcast companies could claim exclusively to be "first." However, 
WCBW did not manage to sign on the air until 2:30 p.m., one full hour after 
WNBT. As a result, WNBC inadvertently holds the distinction as the oldest 
continuously operating commercial television station in the United States, 
and also the only one ready to accept sponsors from its beginning.[6] The 
first program broadcast at 13:00 EST by the sign-on/opening ceremony with 
the national anthem of the United States of America "The Star Spangled 
Banner", followed by an announcement of that day's programs and the commencement 
of NBC television programming. WNBT originally broadcast on channel 1.[7] 
On its first day on the air, WNBT broadcast the world's first official 
television advertisement before a baseball game between the Brooklyn Dodgers 
and Philadelphia Phillies. The announcement for Bulova watches, for which 
the company paid anywhere from $4.00 to $9.00 (reports vary), displayed 
a WNBT test pattern modified to look like a clock with the hands showing 
the time. The Bulova logo, with the phrase "Bulova Watch Time", was shown 
in the lower right-hand quadrant of the test pattern while the second hand 
swept around the dial for one minute.[8][9] Although full commercial telecasting 
began on July 1, 1941 with the first paid advertisements on WNBT, there 
had been experimental, non-paid advertising on television as far back as 
1930. NBC's earliest non-paid, television commercials may have been those 
seen during the first Major League Baseball game ever telecast, a game 
between the Dodgers and the Cincinnati Reds, on August 26, 1939 over W2XBS. 
In order to secure the rights to show the game on television, NBC allowed 
each of the Dodgers' regular radio sponsors at the time to have one commercial 
during the telecast, and these were done by Dodger announcer Red Barber. 
For Ivory Soap, he held up a bar of the product, for Mobil gas he put on 
a filling station attendant's cap while giving his spiel, and for Wheaties 
he poured a bowl of the product, added milk and bananas, and took a big 
spoonful.[10] The pioneering special interest/documentary show The Voice 
of Firestone Televues, a television offshoot of The Voice of Firestone, 
a mainstay on NBC radio since 1928, became the first regularly scheduled 
TV program not featuring news or sports, when it began on WNBT on November 
29, 1943 (though a one-time-only, trial episode of Truth or Consequences 
aired on WNBT's first week of programming two years earlier; it eventually 
returned to TV in the 1950s). During World War II, RCA diverted key technical 
TV staff to the U.S. Navy, who were interested in developing a television-guided 
bomb. WNBT's studio and program staff were placed at the disposal of the 
New York City Police Department and used for civil defense training telecasts, 
with only a limited number of weekly programs for general audiences airing 
during much of the war. Programming began to grow on a small scale during 
1944. On April 10, 1944, WNBT began feeding The Voice of Firestone Televues 
each week to a small network of stations including General Electric's Schenectady 
station (now called WRGB) and Philco-owned WPTZ (now KYW-TV) in Philadelphia,[11] 
both of which are now affiliated with CBS. This series is considered to 
be the NBC Television Network's first regularly scheduled program. On May 
8, 1945, WNBT broadcast hours of news coverage on the end of World War 
II in Europe, and remotes from around New York City. This event was pre-promoted 
by NBC with a direct-mail card sent to television set owners in the New 
York City area.[12] At one point, a WNBT camera placed atop the marquee 
of the Astor Hotel in New York City panned the crowd below celebrating 
the end of the war in Europe. The vivid coverage was a prelude to television's 
rapid growth after the war ended. In the spring of 1946, the station changed 
its frequency from VHF channel 1 to channel 4 after channel 1 was removed 
from use for television broadcasting. From 1946 to 2009, it occupied the 
66–72 MHz band of frequencies which had been designated as "channel 3" 
in the pre-1946 FCC allocation table but was renumbered Channel 4 in the 
post-war system (DuMont-owned WABD, today's WNYW—had been designated as 
"Channel 4", before that station moved to the current channel 5 but was 
only required to retune its video and audio carriers downward by 2 MHz 
under the new system). In October 1948, WNBT's operations were integrated 
with those of sister station WNBC radio (660 AM).[citation needed] The 
station changed its call letters on October 18, 1954, to WRCA-TV (for NBC's 
then-parent company, Radio Corporation of America or RCA)[13] and on May 
22, 1960, channel 4 became WNBC-TV.[14] NBC had previously used the callsign 
on its television station in New Britain, Connecticut, from 1957 until 
it was sold earlier in 1960 (that station is now WVIT, and is once again 
an NBC-owned station). WNBC-TV also earned a place in broadcasting history 
as the birthplace of The Tonight Show. It began on the station in 1953 
as a local late night program, The Steve Allen Show and NBC executive Sylvester 
"Pat" Weaver brought it to the network in 1954. Studio 6B, the show's home 
under Jack Paar, Johnny Carson and today Jimmy Fallon, was the news studio 
for WNBC while Tonight was produced in Los Angeles.[citation needed] On 
June 1, 1992, channel 4 dropped the -TV suffix from its call letters (following 
the sale in 1988 of its sister radio station WNBC, whose frequency is now 
occupied by WFAN) and became simply WNBC, with the new branding slogan 
"4 New York". The accompanying station image campaign was titled We're 
4 New York and featured a musical theme composed by Edd Kalehoff. WNBC 
was rebranded again as "NBC 4" on September 5, 1995, with its newscasts 
being renamed NewsChannel 4. In March 2008, the "4 New York" branding was 
revived. During the September 11, 2001, attacks, the transmitter facilities 
of WNBC, as well as eight other New York City area television stations 
and several radio stations, were destroyed when two hijacked airplanes 
crashed into and destroyed the World Trade Center. WNBC broadcast engineer 
Bill Steckman died in the tragedy, along with six other engineers from 
other television stations.[citation needed] In the immediate aftermath, 
the station temporarily fed its signal to three UHF stations that were 
still broadcasting (PBS member station WLIW and independent stations WMBC 
and W26CE).[15] After resuming over-the-air transmissions, the station 
broadcast from the former transmitter site of Channel 68 in West Orange, 
New Jersey. Since 2005, WNBC has broadcast its signal from the Empire State 
Building in midtown Manhattan, returning to the original transmitter site 
used from the 1930s to the 1970s. In 2004, WNBC served as the model station 
for NBC Weather Plus, a 24-hour digital weather channel that aired on its 
second digital subchannel (4.2) and on several local cable systems; other 
NBC-owned stations launched their own Weather Plus channels in 2005, although 
Weather Plus was phased out at the end of 2008. In February 2015, WNBC 
and the other NBC-owned stations offered live, web-based streaming of programming 
to subscribers of participating cable and satellite television providers, 
as provided through the TV Everywhere Mobile Apps.[16] The station's digital 
channel is multiplexed: On December 20, 2012, WNBC and other NBC-owned 
stations began carrying Cozi TV. It replaced NBC (New York) Nonstop, which 
had been carried on digital subchannel 4.2 since 2009. WNBC also has a 
Mobile DTV feed of subchannel 4.2, labelled "WNBC Mobile", broadcasting 
at 1.83 Mbit/s.[18][19] WNBC discontinued regular programming on its analog 
signal, over VHF channel 4, at 12:30 p.m. on June 12, 2009, as part of 
the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television.[20] 
The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 
28,[21] using PSIP to display WNBC's virtual channel as 4 on digital television 
receivers. Since the station qualified for the nightlight clause in the 
DTV Delay Act,[22] it was required to keep its analog signal on for two 
weeks to inform viewers of the digital television transition. From June 
12 to June 26, 2009, the analog signal consisted of a loop of digital transition 
public service announcements while the digital channel was used for normal 
programming. WNBC's analog feed signed off at 11:00 a.m. on June 26, with 
a montage of historic test patterns and NBC logos (along with the NBC Jingle 
being played at the near end), set to the NBC Nightly News theme from the 
early 1980s, culminating with the word "GOODBYE." Then, the screen cut 
to static. WNBC has long presented events such as the annual St. Patrick's 
Day Parade, The National Puerto Rican Day Parade (until 2006, when coverage 
moved to WNYW and currently WABC-TV), the Columbus Day Parade (Until 2010, 
when coverage moved to WABC-TV), and the Rockefeller Center Tree Lighting. 
They have sponsored an annual two-day Health & Fitness Expo Fair at MetLife 
Stadium every summer, between 1995 and 2011, They were the exclusive local 
English-language carrier of the annual New York City Marathon until 2013 
when WABC-TV took over. From 2010 to 2014, the station was an Official 
local broadcast partner of Discovery Times Square. From 2012 to 2014, the 
station along with the New York Daily News has had partnerships with Mount 
Sinai Health System (Live Well New York) and Popular Community Bank (Popular 
Tips). During the Holiday Season, the station has an annual Holiday Sing-Along. 
The station also produces Visiones, a weekly segment about Hispanic culture, 
that also airs in Spanish on sister Telemundo station WNJU, and Positively 
Black, a weekly segment about Black American culture. WNBC serves as the 
flagship station for The Ellen DeGeneres Show. Some other syndicated programming 
includes Steve Harvey, Extra, and Access Hollywood (plus its live counterpart), 
among others. Because of its ownership by the network, WNBC generally carries 
the entire NBC network schedule, although the station does not clear the 
entirety of NBC's weekday overnight lineup – it does not clear the rebroadcast 
of the fourth hour of Today and the network's broadcast of CNBC's Mad Money, 
opting to air syndicated programming instead, and Weekend Today is broadcast 
an hour later (at 9 a.m.) on Sunday than most NBC stations in the Eastern 
United States, due to an hour-long Sunday morning newscast. Occasionally 
on Christmas Day each year until 2013, the station airs Music and the Spoken 
Word, which is also aired on other NBC-owned stations. As of June 2016, 
WNBC is one of five NBC-owned stations that distributes programming either 
nationally and/or regionally (along with KNTV, KNBC, WVIT and WTVJ). WNBC 
currently serves as the official flagship carrier of New York Giants football 
games (co-produced by MSG Network); with rival WWOR-TV, served as the alternate 
carrier during the Summer Olympic Games, and formerly served as the official 
flagship carrier of New York Jets football games (with games produced by 
co-owned regional sports network SportsNet New York) until rights to Jets 
games moved to WCBS-TV. WNBC currently broadcasts 34 hours of locally produced 
newscasts each week (with 5½ hours on weekdays, 3½ hours each on Saturdays 
and Sundays); in addition, the station produces the half-hour sports highlight 
program Sports Sunday, which airs Sunday evenings after the 11:00 p.m. 
newscast. From the late 1960s through the 1980s, WNBC was involved in a 
fierce three-way battle with WCBS-TV and WABC-TV for the top spot in the 
New York television ratings. This continued during a lean period for NBC 
as a whole. WNBC's hallmark over the years has been strong coverage of 
breaking stories and straight news products that also feature light-hearted 
and/or entertainment elements (such as Live at Five and Today in New York). 
Many of WNBC's personalities have been at the station for over 20 years. 
Chuck Scarborough has been the station's main anchor since 1974. From 1980 
to 2012, he was teamed with Sue Simmons at 11 p.m., and the two were the 
longest-serving anchor team in New York City television history. Senior 
correspondent Gabe Pressman has been at the station since 1956, except 
for a seven-year stint (from 1972 to 1979) at WNEW-TV (now WNYW). WNBC-TV 
was the first major-market station in the country to have success with 
a 5 p.m. newscast, adding that program to its Sixth Hour show at 6 p.m. 
in 1974 and renaming all of its local newscasts NewsCenter 4 (three other 
NBC owned-and-operated stations in Chicago, Washington, D.C., and Los Angeles, 
also adopted the NewsCenter name). The moniker remained until September 
1, 1980, when the newscasts were renamed News 4 New York. Shortly before 
then the 5 p.m. program was renamed Live at Five, and the hour was reformatted 
from a straight news program into a mix of news and celebrity interviews. 
Live at Five eventually became the most-successful local program in New 
York City, a feat that resulted in landing the show's hosts on the cover 
of New York magazine. For most of the time from 1980 to 1990, WNBC-TV used 
various themes written by Scott Schreer.[23] His theme for News 4 New York 
was based on a synthesized version of the NBC chimes, with a graphics package 
featuring a lightning bolt striking its logo from 1980 to 1990, a fancy 
die-cut "4". In 1992, the station began calling itself 4 New York and the 
campaign song, written by Edd Kalehoff, was quickly adopted as the theme 
for the newscast. The theme was briefly brought back after the September 
11 attacks in 2001. In 1995, after the station rebranded itself as "NBC 
4" and its newscasts as Newschannel 4, Kalehoff wrote a new theme called 
"NBC Stations" featuring the NBC chimes, the chime sequence being the musical 
notes G-E-C. It remained in use for eight years, along with a graphics 
package using a simple red line for the lower thirds.[citation needed] 
The 2003 graphics package was created by Emmy Award-winner Randy Pyburn 
of Pyburn Films. Pyburn has produced several promotions for the station 
and the now-defunct Jane's New York specials hosted by former WNBC reporter 
Jane Hanson. The graphics package was also used on other NBC stations. 
The music was written by Rampage Music and featured a brassy version of 
the NBC chimes, and lower thirds featured a shimmering peacock (fellow 
NBC O&O KNTV adopted the theme in 2007 and currently uses the same variant 
of LA Groove used by WNBC). In March 2008, concurrent with the restoration 
of the 4 New York branding, the newscasts began to be called News 4 New 
York once more.[24] Many WNBC personalities have appeared, and have also 
moved up to the NBC network, including: Marv Albert, Len Berman, Contessa 
Brewer, Chris Cimino, Fran Charles, Darlene Rodriguez, Maurice DuBois, 
Joelle Garguilo, Michael Gargiulo, Tony Guida, Jim Hartz, Janice Huff, 
Matt Lauer, Tom Llamas, Al Roker, Shiba Russell, Scarborough and Tom Snyder. 
In the past, Albert, Berman, Brewer, Charles, DuBois, Guida, Hartz, Roker, 
Lauer, Llamas, Russell, Scarborough and Snyder have worked at WNBC 4 and 
at NBC at the same time. Rodriguez, Cimino, Huff, Garguilo and Gargiulo 
currently do them both. One popular monthly feature is Berman's "Spanning 
the World", a reel of odd and interesting sports highlights from the past 
month, including a recorded introduction and closing by legendary NBC staff 
announcer Don Pardo. This segment airs on Today on a monthly basis. When 
Simmons joined the station in early 1980, she was paired with Scarborough 
on both the 6 and 11 p.m. newscasts. However, for most of the time until 
2005, WNBC's weeknight anchor rotation had Simmons and another male anchor 
(including Jack Cafferty, Guida, Lauer, and briefly Scarborough) at 5 p.m.; 
Scarborough and various anchors (John Hambrick, Pat Harper, and Michele 
Marsh among them) at 6 p.m.; and Scarborough and Simmons together at 11 
p.m. That changed in 2005 as Live at Five anchor Jim Rosenfield jumped 
back to WCBS-TV, where he had once been the noon and 5 p.m. anchor and 
took on the role as lead anchor for their 5 and 11 p.m. newscasts. Former 
reporter Perri Peltz returned to WNBC to co-anchor Live at Five with Simmons, 
making New York City one of the few large markets with two female anchors 
on an evening newscast. The move harkened back to three decades earlier, 
when the station paired Pia Lindström with Melba Tolliver on its 5 p.m. 
news hour, creating one of the first all-female anchor teams on a major-market 
American television station.[25] It was short-lived as Simmons and Peltz 
were both displaced from Live at Five because of changes in the station's 
early evening news lineup that went into effect on March 12, 2007: David 
Ushery and Lynda Baquero became co-anchors of a truncated, 30-minute-long 
Live at Five broadcast, followed by Peltz with a 30-minute, soft-news program, 
News 4 You. Simmons was moved to co-anchor at 6 p.m. with Scarborough. 
On September 13, 2006, WNBC became the first New York City television station 
to broadcast its newscasts in high definition. On May 5, 2007, WNBC brought 
back its popular campaign song "We're 4 New York", composed by Kalehoff, 
after nearly six years off air (after the September 11, 2001, attacks).[26] 
In early Autumn 2007, additional changes were brought to WNBC's early-evening 
lineup. On September 10, the station moved the newsmagazine series Extra 
to 5 p.m., and cancelled Live at Five. News 4 You remained at 5:30 p.m., 
but was replaced on October 15, 2007 with a traditional newscast, anchored 
by Simmons and Michael Gargiulo. The 6 p.m. newscast became anchored by 
Ushery and Baquero, and New York Nightly News, a new half-hour newscast 
with Scarborough as sole anchor, debuted at 7 p.m. Unfortunately, these 
changes did not result to an increase in WNBC's ratings in the November 
2007 sweeps period, partially because of the 2007-08 Writers Guild of America 
strike. The most shocking of WNBC's ratings decreases was its 11 p.m. newscast, 
which fell to third place, behind WCBS and WABC.[27] WNBC altered its 5:00-6:00 p.m. 
hour on January 2, 2008, swapping the half-hour news at 5:30 with Extra. 
On March 9, 2009, with the launch of New York Nonstop on digital subchannel 
4.2, New York Nightly News was moved to the subchannel and expanded to 
one hour, while Extra was moved back to 7 p.m. and a full hour of news 
returned to the 5 p.m. hour. Still, WNBC's ratings struggled: during the 
March 2009 sweeps period, its newscasts were a distant third in all time 
slots, except during the weekday mornings, where it remained in second. 
On May 7, 2008, NBC Universal announced plans for a major restructuring 
of WNBC's news department. The centerpiece of the restructuring was the 
creation of a 24-hour all-news channel on WNBC's second digital subchannel 
(4.2). Channel 4's news operations were revamped and melded into the all-news 
channel, which serve as a "content center" for the station's various local 
distribution platforms. The digital news channel was launched on March 
9, 2009. In the fall of 2008, WNBC started beta-testing a new website which 
was apparently poised to be one of the major platforms for the content 
center. On November 17, 2008, WNBC moved its news studio from Studio 6B 
to 7E and rolled out a new set design, graphics package and theme song 
written by veteran TV composer Frank Gari. This move came after months 
of planning of the new content newsroom with its 24-hour news digital subchannel. 
It was also their debut of the updated "4 New York" logo, using letters 
in Media Gothic Bold font.[28] On June 16, 2009, WNBC announced that its 
5 p.m. newscast would be replaced in September by a one-hour daily lifestyle 
and entertainment show by LXTV entitled LX New York. After this change, 
WNBC, with only three hours per day of local news, had the shortest airtime 
devoted to local news of any "big three" network-owned station. In the 
fall of 2009, WNBC began sharing its news helicopter with Fox owned-and-operated 
WNYW (channel 5) as part of a Local News Service agreement. The SkyFox 
HD helicopter operated by WNYW when used by WNBC was called "Chopper 4" 
on-air. This agreement ended in 2012, with WNBC returning to use its own 
helicopter upon the expiration of the contract.[29] In the summer of 2010, 
The Debrief with David Ushery began to air on Sunday at noon on WNBC after 
launching on New York Nonstop; it now airs Sunday mornings at 5:30 a.m. 
LX New York was renamed to New York Live on May 26, 2011. The program was 
set to move to 3 p.m. on September 12, 2011; at that time, WNBC would resume 
airing a 5 p.m. newscast.[30] However, due to Hurricane Irene, the 5 p.m. 
newscast's start date was moved up to August 29, 2011, with New York Live 
moving to its new 3 p.m. slot then.[31] On November 18, 2011, WNBC launched 
a noon newscast that replaced The Rundown with Russell and Llamas as the 
anchors.[32] In December 2011, WNBC struck a news partnership with nonprofit 
news-reporting organization ProPublica. The organization, which won a Pulitzer 
Prize in 2010, has already had partnerships with several media outlets 
including USA Today, Reader's Digest, HuffPost and Businessweek. However, 
ProPublica's reports are incorporated across all NBC O&O stations, not 
just WNBC. This is part of larger efforts for NBCUniversal's television 
stations to partner with nonprofit news organizations following its acquisition 
by Comcast.[33] WNBC relocated from Studio 7E to Studio 3C (the studio 
previously used by NBC Nightly News, which now originates from Studio 3B) 
on April 21, 2012. Channel 4 also updated its graphics and switched to 
the "L.A. Groove" theme that has been in use by sister station KNBC.[34] 
On June 15, 2012, Sue Simmons left WNBC as her contract with the station 
had not been renewed.[35] In January 2013, the station expanded its Sunday 
11 p.m. newscasts to one hour, possibly to compete with WABC who expanded 
its late news in January 2012.[36] On June 6, 2016, WNBC revamped its website. 
On June 11, 2016 beginning with the 11:00 p.m. newscast, its news graphics 
were also changed and it began using "Look N" graphics from NBC Artworks, 
becoming the first NBC-owned station to use the new graphics that were 
rolled out to other NBC-owned stations around this time. On June 13 of 
the same year, the station debuted its 4:00 p.m. newscast, becoming the 
second New York television station to expand it to the time period complete 
with WABC who began starting their 4:00 p.m. newscasts in May 2011.[37] 
On October 10, 2016, WNBC Moved into its New set In studio 3K (the studio 
also used by Dateline NBC and sister cable network MSNBC) which is similar 
to the set in 3C but a lot larger in size and has a new weather center 
area, plus a new touchscreen display that is similar to The Today Show's 
Orange Room, a LED wall and workspace and presentation pod.[38] 1998 saw 
the introduction of a brand-new Chopper 4, a brand new Eurocopter EC135 
that the station heavily promoted. But the new chopper ended up crashing 
into the Passaic River near Harrison and Newark on December 3, 1998; all 
occupants survived.[41] Hence, the older model, a Eurocopter AS350, was 
returned to service, and remained until May 4, 2004, when it crashed while 
covering a shooting in Brooklyn. Reporter Andrew Torres, pilot Russ Cowry 
and pilot trainee Hassan Taan survived the crash and were taken to area 
hospitals. The crash occurred at about 6:30 p.m. as the crew was preparing 
for a live report from the scene of a shooting in East Flatbush. Before 
the cut-in, Chopper 4 appeared to begin a steep nosedive. WABC's own helicopter 
captured the initial nosedive and the chopper's subsequent tailspin until 
crashing into a rooftop.[42] On March 27, 2008, after the 7:00 p.m. newscast, 
the station scrapped the program Access Hollywood in favor of a Paid Infomercial 
by Lend America but including the station's Infomercial disclaimer at the 
start. Joe Avellar, a former reporter at the station which he dropped in 
2006 was seen in the ad. A day later, a spokeswoman for the station told 
New York Daily News that the spot won't be seen again in the near future. 
According to some rival stations, the station took in $130,000 for the 
half-hour, which generated minuscule ratings.[43] Dan Foreman, the station's 
News Director resigned in February prior to the incident. The station's 
general manager, Frank Comerford, who later become the Chief Revenue Officer 
and President Commercial Operations at NBC Owned Television Stations, also 
resigned due to the incident. 4 days later on April 1, 2008, Vicky Burns 
becomes the News Director and Tom O' Brien became the general manager of 
the station after the incident. Tom O' Brien is currently the EVP for Digital 
Media at Nexstar Broadcasting Group. On April 9, 2008, Lend America told 
Daily News they wanted to use him again. 5 months later on August 24, 2008, 
the station dropped the We're 4 New York song promos in the wake of the 
controversy. On May 12, 2008, the 11:00 p.m. news anchor Sue Simmons said 
the f-word during the teasers but the goof prompted Simmons to shout off-camera, 
"What the fuck are you doing?", then the screen then went black. During 
the newscast Simmons apologized, "I have to acknowledge an unfortunate 
incident", she told viewers. "I used a word that many people find offensive. 
It was a mistake I made and I'm truly sorry." The spokeswoman for the station 
and the network officials had no comment on the incident.[44][45] On February 
5, 2012, the station premiered the I-Team promo during NBC Sports' coverage 
of Super Bowl XLVI featuring former NYPD commissioner Ray Kelly, but later 
on the day after the Super Bowl, they edited out Kelly's clip due to some 
complaints from rival WCBS-TV. However, the spokesman declined to comment, 
and criticisms arose from WABC-TV, WNYW and WPIX, the station's rivals. 
Station's General Manager Michael Jack said in the statement that "our 
investigative team is among the most experienced in the industry, and to 
suggest that the station won’t cover the NYPD fairly, accurately and with 
balance simply because the commissioner appeared in a station promotional 
spot is simply not true".[46] following the promo was edited out at the 
station, Lynda Baquero resigned from the investigative team but continued 
as a reporter for the station. She was replaced by Pei-Sze Cheng and Jonathan 
