WNET, channel 13, is a non-commercial educational, public television station 
licensed to Newark, New Jersey, USA. With its signal covering the New York 
metropolitan area, WNET is a member station of, and program provider to, 
the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS). WNET's main studios and offices 
are located in Midtown Manhattan with an auxiliary street-level studio 
in the Lincoln Center complex on the Upper West Side. The station's transmitter 
is on the Empire State Building. The license-holder is WNET.org,[2] formerly 
known as the Educational Broadcasting Corporation. WNET is also the parent 
of the Long Island-based PBS station WLIW (channel 21) and the operator 
of the New Jersey PBS network NJTV. WNET commenced broadcasting on May 
15, 1948, as WATV, a commercial television station owned by Atlantic Television, 
a subsidiary of Bremer Broadcasting Corporation.[3][4] Frank V. Bremer, 
the CEO, also owned two northern New Jersey radio stations, WAAT (970 AM, 
now WNYM) and WAAT-FM (94.7 MHz., now WNSH). The three stations were based 
in the Mosque Theatre (now Symphony Hall) at 1020 Broad Street in Newark. 
WATV was the first of three new stations in the New York City television 
market to sign on the air during 1948, and was also the first independent 
station. One unusual daytime program, Daywatch, consisted of a camera focused 
on a teletypewriter printing wire service news stories, interspersed with 
cut-aways to mechanical toys against a light music soundtrack. Another 
early series by the station was Stairway to Stardom (1950-1951), one of 
the first TV series with an African-American host. On October 6, 1957, 
Bremer Broadcasting announced it had sold its stations for $4.5 million 
to National Telefilm Associates (NTA), an early distributor of motion pictures 
for television.[5][6] On May 7, 1958, channel 13's callsign was changed 
to WNTA-TV to reflect the new ownership; the radio stations adopted these 
call letters as well. NTA's cash resources enabled WNTA-TV to produce a 
schedule of programming with greater emphasis on the people and events 
of New Jersey, in comparison to the other commercial television stations.[7] 
NTA also sought to make channel 13 a center of nationally syndicated programming 
and produced several such entries, notably the anthology drama series Play 
of the Week; the talk show Open End, hosted by David Susskind; children's 
show The Magic Clown; and a popular dance program emceed by Clay Cole. 
But WNTA-TV continued to lag behind New York's other independent stations 
– WNEW-TV (channel 5, now WNYW), WOR-TV (channel 9, now WWOR-TV), and WPIX 
(channel 11) – in terms of audience size, and NTA incurred a large debtload. 
National Telefilm Associates put the WNTA stations up for sale in February 
1961.[8] At least three prospective purchasers expressed interest in WNTA-TV. 
The most prominent was the New York City-based group Educational Television 
for the Metropolitan Area (ETMA), a consortium of businesspeople, cultural 
leaders and educators who intended to turn channel 13 into an educational 
station. By this time, it was obvious that the non-commercial frequency 
that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) originally allocated to 
the city, UHF channel 25, would not be nearly adequate enough to cover 
a market that stretched from Fairfield County, Connecticut in the north 
to Ocean County, New Jersey in the south. Prior to 1964, when the FCC required 
television manufacturers to include UHF tuners in newer sets as per the 
All-Channel Act, most viewers could not view UHF stations except with an 
expensive converter; only a few manufacturers made sets with built-in UHF 
tuning. Even for those who could access UHF stations, reception was marginal 
even under the best conditions. With assistance from the University of 
the State of New York, ETMA had attempted to purchase channel 13 and convert 
it into a non-commercial station in 1957, when Bremer Broadcasting first 
put the station on the block;[10] this bid was later withdrawn. This time 
ETMA was competing with NTA founding president Ely Landau, who had resigned 
from the company in order to head his own venture for this; and by David 
Susskind, who received financial backing from Paramount Pictures.[11] ETMA's 
initial bid of $4 million was rejected by NTA,[12] but the citizens' group 
remained persistent. With the support and guidance of National Educational 
Television (NET) already in their pocket, ETMA later received an endorsement 
from newly appointed FCC chairman Newton Minow, who established public 
hearings to discuss the fate of channel 13. The pendulum quickly shifted 
in favor of channel 13 going non-commercial, and the private firms withdrew 
their interest.[13] On June 29, 1961, ETMA agreed to purchase WNTA-TV for 
$6.2 million.[14] About $2 million of that amount came from five of the 
six remaining commercial VHF stations (WPIX was the lone holdout), all 
of whom were pleased to see a competitor eliminated.[15] In addition, CBS 
later donated a facility in Manhattan to ETMA and NET for production uses. 
The FCC approved the transfer in October, and converted channel 13's commercial 
license to non-commercial.[16] The outgoing New Jersey governor, Robert 
B. Meyner, addressing state lawmakers' concerns over continued programming 
specific to New Jersey, and fearing the FCC would move the channel 13 allocation 
to New York City,[17] petitioned the United States Court of Appeals on 
September 6, 1961, to block the sale of WNTA-TV. The court ruled in the 
state's favor two months later.[18] The unsettled deal almost caused National 
Telefilm Associates to reconsider its decision to sell the station altogether, 
and NTA made plans to go forward: WNTA-TV made a play to acquire broadcast 
rights for the New York Mets baseball team for its inaugural 1962 season.[19] 
But faced with either consummating the transaction or seeing it cancelled, 
ETMA settled their differences with New Jersey officials on December 4, 
1961.[20] After a few last-minute issues arose to cause further delays, 
the transfer became final on December 22.[21] Later that evening, WNTA-TV 
signed off for the final time. ETMA and NET then went to work converting 
the station, which they said would return with its new format within three 
months. Ten months later, channel 13 was ready to be reborn. With legendary 
CBS reporter Edward R. Murrow at the helm on the maiden broadcast, ETMA 
– now the non-profit Educational Broadcasting Corporation – flipped the 
switch to WNDT (for "New Dimensions in Television") on September 16, 1962.[13][22][23][24] 
The return of channel 13 as WNDT gave the New York City market its first 
educational station, and with a dial position on the coveted VHF band (in 
many other cities, including large ones, educational stations had to make 
do with UHF frequencies). New York's non-commercial UHF channel, on the 
other hand, signed on as WNYE-TV four-and-a-half years later in April 1967. 
Richard Heffner was appointed as WNDT's first general manager, serving 
in that position in its first year; Heffner continued to appear on channel 
13 as producer and host of the public affairs program The Open Mind until 
his death in December 2013.[25] During the transition, and after the inaugural 
broadcast, WNDT faced an immediate crisis. The American Federation of Television 
and Radio Artists (AFTRA) was concerned about the use of teachers – some 
of whom were union-certified performers – on non-commercial television, 
and how they would be compensated should their work be distributed nationally. 
AFTRA called a strike on the morning of WNDT's debut. Engineers and technicians 
who were members of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers 
refused to cross the AFTRA picket line, leaving the station's management 
and other non-union employees to produce the three-hour inaugural broadcast. 
Immediately afterwards, channel 13 went off the air again, as the strike 
continued for nearly two weeks.[9][26] The striking workers returned WNDT 
to the air after ten days, and on September 28, the labor dispute was settled.[27][28] 
But the station's financial resources were drained, requiring an infusion 
of cash from the Ford Foundation to help keep the station running.[29] 
NET originally wanted to merge its operations with WNDT, which would have 
given the station a direct line of funding as well as make channel 13 NET's 
flagship station. The Ford Foundation, which supported both groups, stopped 
the proposed mergers on at least two different occasions (in 1962 and 1965). 
Events that began in 1967 led the Ford Foundation to change its stance 
and push for a WNDT-NET merger. The newly formed Corporation for Public 
Broadcasting (created by an act of the United States Congress) initially 
supported NET's network role, while providing government funding for programming. 
But that move was followed two years later with the establishment of the 
Public Broadcasting Service as the CPB's own distribution system – which 
was a direct threat to NET's territory. It has been intimated that the 
CPB's creation was an attempt to curb NET's production of controversial 
documentaries and replace it with a less controversial, government-friendly 
broadcaster, less hostile in particular to the Johnson, and later the Nixon 
administrations (NET ignored the demand and continued on with the production 
of the critically acclaimed documentaries). At one point, President Nixon, 
frustrated with NET's documentaries criticizing his administration, especially 
its handling of the Vietnam War, almost managed to cut NET's $20 million 
funding grant in half.[30] As a result, this led both Ford and the CPB 
to threaten NET with funding withdrawal in early 1970, unless it merged 
with the station. Not long after, Ford brokered the merger of WNDT and 
NET, which took effect on June 29, 1970.[31] Channel 13's callsign was 
changed to the present WNET on October 1, 1970.[32] NET ceased network 
operations three days later, though WNET continued to produce some shows 
for the national PBS schedule with the NET branding until about 1972. Following 
the merger, David Loxton established the TV Lab in 1972 with support from 
the Rockefeller Foundation and New York State Council on the Arts. TV Lab 
provided artists with equipment to produce video pieces through an artist-in-residence 
program. The Independent Documentary Fund and Video Tape Review series 
were both produces of TV Lab. TV Lab ended in 1984 when the Corporation 
for Public Broadcasting withdrew funds. Channel 13's studios and offices 
were originally located in the Mosque Theater at 1020 Broad Street in Newark, 
with transmitter on First Mountain in West Orange, New Jersey. For a short 
time studios were located at the Gateway Center office building in Newark. 
The station eventually moved its operations to Manhattan in 1982 and was 
based on West 58th Street in the Hudson Hotel, while retaining the Gateway 
Center studios for a few more years. In 1998, it moved to 450 West 33rd 
Street, straddling the railroad tracks going into Pennsylvania Station. 
The Associated Press and numerous other media groups have headquarters 
in the same building. Channel 13's transmitter facilities, including a 
newly installed digital transmission system, were destroyed on September 
11, 2001, when airplanes hijacked by terrorists crashed into the north 
and south towers of the World Trade Center. Gerard (Rod) Coppola, channel 
13's head transmitter engineer, was among those who perished when the north 
tower collapsed. His remains were discovered on December 25, 2001.[33] 
For the next ten months WNYE-TV, headquartered in Brooklyn, became WNET's 
surrogate transmitter and airwave: for those without cable, repeats of 
WNET's prime-time schedule were broadcast on WNYE. Some time later, in 
February 2003, WNET completed its merger with Long Island PBS broadcaster 
WLIW (licensed to Garden City and based in Plainview), combining the two 
stations into one operation. While most of the two stations' operations 
have been merged, they still have separate studio facilities, separate 
governing boards, and conduct separate fundraising efforts. During 2009, 
WNET's parent company, WNET.org, sustained financial difficulties, and 
in January, the company pared its workforce from 500 employees to 415, 
due to severe problems with its budget and fundraising. In October, WNET 
announced that its studios at 450 West 33rd Street would soon be up for 
sale, as it no longer needed the extra space. In November, WNET announced 
that all WNET.org employees would take an unpaid furlough for three to 
five days between Christmas and New Year's Day, with a skeleton crew of 
engineers remaining during that time to keep the stations on the air; however, 
they, too, would have to go on furloughs at the start of 2010.[34] In 2011, 
WNET moved its studios and offices to Worldwide Plaza. In 2014 The Tisch 
WNET Studios at Lincoln Center were built at the southwest corner of 66th 
and Broadway, this versatile, state-of-the-art facility houses two television 
studios. The space can also accommodate lectures, screenings and intimate 
concerts. The new facility is named in honor of James S. Tisch and his 
wife, Merryl H. Tisch, whose $15 million gift is the single largest donation 
from individuals in WNET's nearly 50-year history. On July 1, 2011, WNET 
took over the programming of the New Jersey Network, which was relaunched 
as NJTV. The network features increased coverage of news and issues pertinent 
to New Jersey, as well as programming from the WNET and PBS libraries. 
The transfer of programming to WNET was part of Governor Chris Christie's 
plan for the New Jersey government's exit from public broadcasting.[35] 
As part of the deal, WNET airs NJTV's nightly statewide newscast, NJ Today 
(which was later renamed to NJTV News on November 4, 2013), to meet its 
local programming obligations since it still operates on a frequency allocated 
to Newark. Previously, it had aired NJN's newscast, NJN News, which it 
co-produced with NJN. The station's digital channel is multiplexed: WNET 
discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over VHF channel 
13, at 12:30 p.m. on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition 
from analog to digital television.[37] The station's digital signal relocated 
from its pre-transition UHF channel 61, which was among the high band UHF 
channels (52-69) that were removed from broadcasting use as a result of 
the transition, to its analog-era VHF channel 13 for post-transition operations.[38][39] 
WNET is carried in all of Mercer County, New Jersey on Comcast, Cablevision 
and Verizon FIOS. It is also carried in certain areas of Connecticut, particularly 
those adjoining the New York City market. It is also carried on cable in 
Abaco in the Bahamas. WNET has produced, created and/or presented a number 
of PBS shows. This includes, but is not limited to: **indicates a program 
that was originally presented by Connecticut Public Television. WNET has 
also produced programming for public televisions stations distributed outside 
of the PBS system, including: WNET is also the co-producing entity of the 
PBS NewsHour, along with Washington, D.C. PBS member station WETA-TV and 
MacNeil-Lehrer Productions. The show debuted in 1975 as a local news-analysis 
program, The Robert MacNeil Report. Jim Lehrer, a frequent guest on MacNeil's 
show, became co-host the following year, when the show was picked up by 
other PBS stations. Currently as of 2014, WNET produces Weekend Editions 
of PBS NewsHour while WETA-TV produces its Weekday Editions. Billy Joel 
(a native of the greater New York area) mentioned WNET in one of the lyrics 
to his 1982 song "Pressure". In it, Joel is describing the state of the 
song's character who is going in and out of "Psych ward 1" and "Psych ward 
2". He then says "All your life is channel 13. Sesame Street, what does 
it mean?" WNET is also shown in "The Pledge Drive", an episode of the NBC 
