WNYW, channel 5, is the flagship television station of the Fox Broadcasting 
Company in New York City. WNYW is owned by the Fox Television Stations 
subsidiary of 21st Century Fox, and operates as part of a duopoly with 
Secaucus, New Jersey-based MyNetworkTV flagship station WWOR-TV (channel 
9). The two stations maintain studio facilities at the Fox Television Center 
in the Yorkville section of Manhattan, and its transmitter atop the Empire 
State Building. The station is available on satellite to DirecTV subscribers 
in the few areas of the Eastern United States that do not have an over-the-air 
Fox affiliate and on Dish Network as part of All American Direct's distant 
network package; DirecTV also carries WNYW on its Latin American service, 
and on JetBlue's LiveTV inflight entertainment system. WNYW is also available 
on cable providers in the Caribbean. The station traces its history to 
1938, when television set and equipment manufacturer Allen B. DuMont founded 
experimental station W2XVT in Passaic, New Jersey (whose callsign was later 
changed to W2XWV when it moved to Manhattan in 1940). On May 2, 1944, the 
station received its commercial license – the third in New York City – 
on VHF channel 4 as WABD, its callsign named after DuMont's initials.[1] 
It was one of the few television stations that continued to broadcast during 
World War II, making it the fourth-oldest continuously broadcasting commercial 
station in the United States.[2] The station originally broadcast from 
the DuMont Building at 515 Madison Avenue with a transmission tower atop 
the building (the original tower, long abandoned by the station, still 
remains). On December 17, 1945, WABD moved to channel 5.[3] WNBT (now WNBC) 
took over Channel 4, moving from Channel 1, which the FCC was deallocating 
from the VHF TV broadcast band. Soon after channel 5 received its commercial 
license, DuMont Laboratories began a series of experimental coaxial cable 
hookups between WABD and W3XWT, a DuMont-owned experimental station in 
Washington, D.C. (now WTTG). These hookups were the beginning of the DuMont 
Television Network, the world's first licensed commercial television network 
(although NBC was feeding a few programs and special events from their 
New York station to outlets in Philadelphia and Schenectady as early as 
1940). DuMont began regular network service in 1946 with WABD as the flagship 
station.[4] On June 14, 1954, WABD and DuMont moved into the $5 million 
DuMont Tele-Centre at 205 East 67th Street in Manhattan's Lenox Hill area, 
inside the shell of the space formerly occupied by Jacob Ruppert's Central 
Opera House; channel 5 is still headquartered in the same building as of 
2015, which was later renamed the Metromedia TeleCenter, and now known 
as the Fox Television Center. By February 1955, DuMont realized it could 
not continue in network television, and decided to shut down the network's 
operations and operate WABD and its Washington, D.C. station WTTG (also 
operating on channel 5) as independent stations. WABD thus became the New 
York market's fourth independent station, alongside future sister station 
WOR-TV (now WWOR), WPIX (channel 11) and Newark-licensed WATV (channel 
13, now WNET). After DuMont wound down network operations in August 1955, 
DuMont Laboratories spun off WABD and WTTG into a new firm, the DuMont 
Broadcasting Corporation.[5][6] Channel 5 gained sister stations on radio 
in 1957, when DuMont purchased WNEW (1130 AM, now WBBR) in April of that 
year,[7][8] and the construction permit for WHFI, which was renamed WNEW-FM 
(102.7 FM) when it began operations in August 1958.[9][10] In May 1958, 
DuMont Broadcasting changed its name to the Metropolitan Broadcasting Corporation 
in an effort to distinguish itself from its former corporate parent.[11][12] 
Four months later, on September 7, 1958, WABD's call letters were changed 
to WNEW-TV to match its radio sisters.[13][14] The final major corporate 
transaction involving the station during 1958 occurred in December, when 
Washington-based investor John Kluge acquired Paramount Pictures' controlling 
interest in Metropolitan Broadcasting and appointed himself as the company's 
chairman.[15] Metropolitan Broadcasting began expanding its holdings across 
the United States, and would change its corporate name to Metromedia in 
1961.[16] However, the Metropolitan Broadcasting name was retained for 
Metromedia's TV and radio station properties until 1967.[17] In the early 
1960s, WNEW-TV produced children's shows such as Romper Room (until 1966, 
when it moved to WOR-TV), The Sandy Becker Show and The Sonny Fox Show, 
which was later known as Wonderama. Bob McAllister took over hosting Wonderama 
in 1967 and by 1970, Wonderama was syndicated to the other Metromedia stations. 
WNEW-TV also originated the Jerry Lewis MDA Labor Day Telethon in 1966, 
and broadcast the program annually until 1986, when it moved to WWOR-TV, 
where it has aired through 2012. In the 1970s, local programming also included 
a weekly public affairs show hosted by Gabe Pressman, and Midday Live, 
a daily talk/information show hosted by Lee Leonard, and later by Bill 
Boggs. The station also carried movies, cartoons, off-network sitcoms and 
drama series and a primetime newscast at 10 p.m. By the 1970s, channel 
5 was one of the strongest independent stations in the country. Despite 
WOR-TV's and WPIX's eventual statuses as national superstations, WNEW-TV 
was the highest-rated independent in New York. From the early 1970s to 
the late 1980s, channel 5 was available as a regional superstation in large 
portions of the Northeastern United States, including most of upstate New 
York, and portions of eastern Pennsylvania and southern New England. In 
1986, Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, who had then-recently bought a 
controlling interest in the 20th Century Fox film studio, purchased the 
Metromedia television stations, including WNEW-TV.[18][19] The E in the 
call letters was replaced with a Y slightly changing it to WNYW on March 
7, 1986.[20] Along with the other former Metromedia stations, WNYW formed 
the cornerstone of the Fox Broadcasting Company when it launched on October 
9, 1986. WNYW's schedule initially changed very little, as Fox aired programming 
only on late nights and weekends in the network's first few years. Although 
it began taking on the look of a network-owned station in the spring of 
1987, channel 5 continued to carry cartoons and sitcoms into the late 1980s. 
As a result, channel 5 was still considered an independent station. Murdoch 
had one local obstacle to overcome before his purchase of channel 5 could 
become final, as News Corporation had owned the New York Post since it 
purchased the newspaper in 1976; the Federal Communications Commission's 
media ownership rules barred common ownership of newspapers and broadcast 
licenses in the same media market. The FCC granted Murdoch a temporary 
waiver to keep the Post and WNYW in order to complete its purchase of the 
Metromedia television stations. News Corporation would sell the New York 
Post in 1988, but bought the paper back five years later with a permanent 
waiver of the cross-ownership rules. In the late summer of 1986, WNYW debuted 
the nightly newsmagazine A Current Affair, one of the first shows to be 
labeled as a "tabloid television" program. Originally a local program, 
it was first anchored by Maury Povich, formerly of Washington, D.C. sister 
station WTTG (and who would later briefly also anchor WNYW's evening newscasts). 
Within a year of its launch, A Current Affair was syndicated to the other 
Fox-owned stations;[21] and, in 1988, the series entered into national 
syndication, where it remained until the original incarnation of the program 
was cancelled in 1996. In August 1988, the station dropped its weekday 
morning cartoons in favor of a local news/information program titled Good 
Day New York, which continues to this day. In 1994, Fox gained broadcast 
rights to road games of the National Football Conference; as a result, 
since then, WNYW has been the unofficial "home" station of the New York 
Giants. Among the notable Giants games aired on the station is the team's 
victory in Super Bowl XLII, when the Giants defeated the New England Patriots, 
who were 18-0 at the time and were one win away from the second perfect 
season in NFL history. The NFC road game contract also includes occasional 
New York Jets games. From 1999 to 2001, WNYW held the broadcast rights 
to New York Yankees game telecasts, displacing longtime broadcaster WPIX 
(as of 2013, WNYW continues to show Yankees games through Fox's broadcast 
contract with Major League Baseball). In 2001, Fox bought BHC Communications, 
a television station group owned by Chris-Craft Industries, which effectively 
created a duopoly between WNYW and its former rival, WWOR-TV. In the fall 
of 2001, WNYW dropped Fox Kids' weekday block and moved it to WWOR-TV, 
where it ran for a few more months before Fox discontinued the network's 
weekday children's lineup at the end of that year. In 2004, Fox Television 
Stations announced that it would move WWOR's operations from Secaucus to 
WNYW's facility at the Fox Television Center in Manhattan. While some office 
functions were merged, plans for a full move to Manhattan were abandoned 
later that year due to pressure from New Jersey Congressman Steve Rothman 
(whose congressional district includes Secaucus) and Senator Frank Lautenberg[22][23] 
on grounds that any move to Manhattan would violate the conditions of WWOR's 
broadcast license. The company also considered moving WNYW's operations 
to Secaucus, but to date both stations continue to maintain separate studio 
facilities. On September 11, 2001, the transmitter facilities of WNYW, 
eight other New York City television stations and several radio stations, 
were destroyed when two hijacked airplanes crashed into and destroyed the 
north and south towers of World Trade Center. The station's transmitter 
has since been relocated to an antenna located atop the Empire State Building, 
where its transmitter facilities had been located until they were moved 
to the World Trade Center in the 1970s. In April 2006, WNYW became the 
first Fox-owned to launch a website on Fox Interactive Media's MyFox platform, 
which featured expanded content, more videos and new community features 
such as blogs and photo galleries. The MyFox sites were later outsourced 
to WorldNow, and later Lakana beginning in 2015, after which the MyFox 
brand was discontinued.[24][25] On October 15, 2010, News Corporation pulled 
the signal of WNYW, WWOR, along with co-owned cable channels Fox Business 
Network, Fox Deportes, and National Geographic Wild from Cablevision systems 
in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut due to a dispute between Fox and 
Cablevision in which Cablevision claimed that News Corporation demanded 
$150 million a year to renew its carriage of 12 Fox-owned channels, including 
those removed due to the dispute.[26] Cablevision offered to submit to 
binding arbitration on October 14, 2010, though News Corporation rejected 
Cablevision's proposal, stating that it would "reward Cablevision for refusing 
to negotiate fairly". WWOR, WNYW and the three cable channels were restored 
on October 30, 2010, when Cablevision and News Corporation struck a new 
carriage deal. The station's digital channel 44 is multiplexed; Additionally, 
WNYW and WWOR both have their feeds simulcast in standard definition on 
each other's channel space, allowing over-the-air viewers a viewable signal 
of both stations if they can receive one station, but not the other, as 
shown;[28] WNYW also has a Mobile DTV feed of subchannel 5.1, via its SD 
simulcast on WWOR-TV 9.2, broadcasting at 1.83 Mbit/s.[29][30] WNYW discontinued 
regular programming on its analog signal, over VHF channel 5, at 11:59 p.m. 
ET on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from 
analog to digital television; the shutdown occurred during the closing 
credits of a syndicated rerun of The Simpsons.[31][32] The station's digital 
signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 44,[33] using PSIP to 
display WNYW's virtual channel as 5 on digital television receivers. It 
carried WWOR's programming on digital subchannel 5.2 until 2009, when it 
changed the PSIP data to identify the virtual channel carrying WWOR's programming 
to 9.2. Subchannel 9.2 still remains multiplexed with WNYW 5.1 on RF channel 
44. WNYW serves as the flagship station of Harry, The Dr. Oz Show, The 
Wendy Williams Show, and Inside Edition. All four of its shows are taped 
in New York. WNYW acquired the rights to broadcast Major League Baseball 
games from the New York Yankees assuming the contract from WPIX. Under 
the initial deal, WNYW and actual rights holder the Madison Square Garden 
Network carrying Yankees games until 2001, when the team moved to the new 
YES Network through a joint arrangement with WCBS-TV that lasted until 
the 2004 season and WWOR-TV beginning in 2005. Since the network established 
its sports division in 1994, most sports events carried on channel 5 have 
been provided through Fox Sports. Through Fox's primary rights to the National 
Football Conference (NFC), the station airs select New York Giants telecasts, 
first becoming the unofficial "home" station of the team since the network 
acquired partial television rights to the National Football League (NFL) 
in 1994. Currently, Giants games are rotated between WCBS-TV (through the 
NFL on CBS and Thursday Night Football), WABC-TV (Monday Night Football) 
WPIX (Monday Night Football (if WABC-TV is not airing them) and select 
TNF telecasts not carried by WCBS-TV through CBS' rights or WNBC through 
NBC's rights to the package it shares with NFL Network), and especially 
WNBC (through NBC Sunday Night Football and TNF). WNYW broadcasts 44 hours 
of locally produced newscasts each week (with eight hours on weekdays and 
two hours each on Saturdays and Sundays); this gives the station the largest 
local news output of any television station in the New York City market 
and the state of New York in general, surpassing area CW affiliate WPIX's 
weekly news total by 6¾ hours. As is standard with Fox stations that carry 
early evening weekend newscasts, WNYW's Saturday and Sunday 6 p.m. newscasts 
are subject to delay or preemption due to network sports coverage. WNYW 
and sister station WWOR-TV share resources with Philadelphia sister station 
WTXF-TV in areas of New Jersey in which the New York and Philadelphia markets 
overlap; the stations share reporters for stories occurring in New Jersey 
counties served by both markets. The station is home to one of America's 
longest-running primetime local newscasts: WNYW (as WNEW-TV) first premiered 
its 10 p.m. newscast – the first primetime newscast in the New York market 
– on March 13, 1967. Each night, the newscast (originally known as The 
10 O'Clock News until 2001) was preceded by the simple, but now-famous 
announcement: "It's 10 p.m., Do you know where your children are?",[34] 
which was coined by Mel Epstein. Staff announcer Tom Gregory was one of 
the first to utter this famous line that WNEW pioneered; other television 
stations in the country began using the tagline for their own 10 p.m. (or 
11 p.m.) news slots (which may depend on the start of the local youth curfew 
in each market). Celebrities were often used to read the slogan in the 
1980s, and for a time in the late 1970s, the station added a warmer announcement 
earlier in the day: "It's 6 p.m., have you hugged your child today?" From 
1975 to 1985, the 10 p.m. newscast notably featured nightly op-ed debates 
which pitted conservative Martin Abend against liberal Professor Sidney 
Offit. The first time WNYW programmed news outside its established 10:00 
slot was in 1987, when it premiered a half-hour 7 p.m. newscast; the program 
was canceled in 1993. Then on August 1, 1988, WNYW became the first Fox 
station to run a weekday morning newscast with the debut of the two-hour 
Good Day New York; within five years of its launch, the program became 
the top-rated morning show in the New York City market.[citation needed] 
In 1991, a new and eventually very popular music package was composed for 
the show by Edd Kalehoff, a New York-based composer best known for composing 
the themes and music cues for game shows such as The Price Is Right. Since 
the Fox takeover, WNYW's newscasts have become more tabloid in style and 
have even been fodder for jokes, even to the point of being parodied on 
Saturday Night Live, as well as the consumer reporting segment The Problem 
Solvers receiving the same treatment on The Daily Show.[citation needed] 
WNYW was the first television station to cover the terrorist attacks on 
the World Trade Center that occurred on September 11, 2001. The station 
interrupted a commercial break at 8:48 a.m. ET to deliver the first public 
report of the attacks on air by anchor Jim Ryan and reporter Dick Oliver. 
WNYW donated a digitized copy of this coverage to the Internet Archive 
in July 2012. In 2002, WNYW brought early evening newscasts back to the 
station with the launch of a 90-minute weekday news block from 5 to 6:30 p.m. 
In 2004, longtime anchor John Roland, a 35-year veteran of channel 5, retired 
from the station on June 4, 2004; former NBC News correspondent Len Cannon, 
who joined WNYW as a reporter and anchor some time earlier, was initially 
named as Roland's replacement. Several months later, veteran New York City 
anchorman Ernie Anastos (who at the time was anchoring at WCBS-TV) signed 
a multi-year contract with WNYW, displacing Cannon as lead anchor; Cannon 
asked for, and was granted, a release from his contract with the station 
shortly after Anastos's contract deal was announced. Anastos joined WNYW 
in July 2005, and Cannon joined KHOU-TV in Houston as its lead anchor in 
the spring of 2006. On April 3, 2006, WNYW debuted a new set, theme music 
and graphics package, and introduced a new logo based on the on-air look 
first adopted by Tampa sister station WTVT that became standard for all 
of Fox's owned-and-operated stations. On November 9, 2008, WNYW became 
the fifth New York City television station to begin broadcasting its local 
newscasts in high definition. On July 13, 2009, Good Day New York expanded 
with the addition of a fifth hour of the program from 9 to 10 a.m.; the 
noon newscast was dropped in turn. In the fall of 2009, WNYW entered into 
a Local News Service agreement with NBC owned-and-operated station WNBC 
to share helicopter footage with that station; WNYW's helicopter SkyFox 
HD was renamed "Chopper 5" on-air, though the SkyFox name was reinstated 
in 2010, while the "Chopper 4" name continued to be used by WNBC. The LNS 
agreement ended in 2012 when WNBC began operating its own helicopter; WNYW 
has since entered into a helicopter-sharing agreement with CBS-owned WCBS-TV. 
During the 10 p.m. newscast on September 16, 2009, anchor Ernie Anastos 
cursed live on-air while engaging in banter with chief meteorologist Nick 
Gregory,[35] saying "I guess it takes a tough man to make a tender forecast", 
adding "keep fucking that chicken"; the incident gained some notoriety 
when it and other videos of the on-air gaffe appeared on YouTube,[36] making 
Anastos and WNYW the subject of a joke on ABC's Jimmy Kimmel Live!. Anastos 
apologized for the incident on the following night's 10 p.m. newscast.[37] 
On June 5, 2014, WNYW relaunched its 6:00 p.m. newscast as a more topical, 
interactive program; on June 6, the station launched the entertainment, 
lifestyle and music program Friday Night Live (airing during the timeslot 
normally occupied by the second half-hour of the 10:00 p.m. newscast). 
This was followed by the June 7 debut of hourly news updates that air weekend 
mornings between 9:00 a.m. and noon (WNYW is the only news-producing English 
language network O&O in the New York City market that does not carry a 
full-fledged local newscast on Saturday and/or Sunday mornings, and is 
one of two Fox owned-and-operated stations without a weekend morning newscast, 
alongside KTTV in Los Angeles.[38] As of November 2016, WNYW is the only 
news-producing station in the New York City market that continues to present 
field video in widescreen standard definition; all of the other stations 
broadcast all or most of their field video in high definition. D Denotes 
person is deceased. WNYW was portrayed in an episode of the Fox animated 
comedy Futurama, titled "When Aliens Attack", in which the station was 
accidentally knocked off the air by Philip J. Fry in 1999. That resulted 
in angry Omicronians invading Earth in the year 3000 (having received the 
broadcast signal 1000 years later being 1000 light-years away) and demanding 
