Women's sports includes amateur as well as women's professional sports, 
in virtually all varieties of sports. Female participation in sports rose 
dramatically in the twentieth century, especially in the last quarter, 
reflecting changes in modern societies that emphasized gender parity. Although 
the level of participation and performance still varies greatly by country 
and by sport, women's sports have broad acceptance throughout the world 
in the 2010s. In a few instances, such as figure skating, women athletes 
rival or exceed their male counterparts in popularity. An important aspect 
about women's sports is that women usually do not compete on equal terms 
against men.[1] Before each ancient Olympic Games there was a separate 
women's athletic event, the Heraean Games, dedicated to the goddess Hera 
and held at the same stadium at Olympia. Myth held that the Heraea was 
founded by Hippodameia the wife of the king who founded the Olympics.[2] 
Although married women were excluded from the Olympics even as spectators, 
Cynisca won an Olympic game as owner of a chariot (champions of chariot 
races were owners not riders), as did Euryleonis, Belistiche, Zeuxo, Encrateia 
and Hermione, Timareta, Theodota and Cassia. After the classical period, 
there was some participation by women in men's athletic festivals.[2] During 
the Song, Yuan, and Ming dynasties, women played in professional Cuju teams.[3][4] 
The first Olympic games in the modern era, which were in 1896 were not 
open to women, but since then the number of women who have participated 
in the Olympic games have increased dramatically.[5] The educational committees 
of the French Revolution (1789) included intellectual, moral, and physical 
education for girls and boys alike. With the victory of Napoleon less than 
twenty years later, physical education was reduced to military preparedness 
for boys and men. In Germany, the physical education of GutsMuths (1793) 
included girl's education. This included the measurement of performances 
of girls. This led to women's sport being more actively pursued in Germany 
than in most other countries.[6] When the Fédération Sportive Féminine 
Internationale was formed as an all women's international organization 
it had a German male vice-president, and German international success in 
elite sports. Women's sports in the late 1800s focused on correct posture, 
facial and bodily beauty, muscles, and health.[citation needed] In 1916 
the Amateur Athletic Union (AAU) held its first national championship for 
women.[citation needed] Few women competed in sports in Europe and North 
America until the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, as social 
changes favored increased female participation in society as equals with 
men. Although women were technically permitted to participate in many sports, 
relatively few did. There was often disapproval of those who did. "Bicycling 
has done more to emancipate women than anything else in the world." Susan 
B. Anthony said "I stand and rejoice every time I see a woman ride on a 
wheel. It gives women a feeling of freedom and self-reliance." The modern 
Olympics had female competitors from 1900 onward, though women at first 
participated in considerably fewer events than men. Women first made their 
appearance in the Olympic Games in Paris in 1900. That year, 22 women competed 
in tennis, sailing, croquet, equestrian, and golf.[7] As of the IOC-Congress 
in Paris 1914 a woman's medal had formally the same weight as a man's in 
the official medal table. This left the decisions about women's participation 
to the individual international sports federations.[8] Concern over the 
physical strength and stamina of women led to the discouragement of female 
participation in more physically intensive sports, and in some cases led 
to less physically demanding female versions of male sports. Thus netball 
was developed out of basketball and softball out of baseball. In response 
to the lack of support for women's international sport the Fédération Sportive 
Féminine Internationale was founded in France. This organization initiated 
the Women's World Games, which attracted participation of nearly 20 countries 
and was held four times between 1922 and 1934.[9] The International Olympic 
Committee began to incorporate greater participation of women at the Olympics 
in response. The number of Olympic women athletes increased over five-fold 
in the period, going from 65 at the 1920 Summer Olympics to 331 at the 
1936 Summer Olympics.[10][11] Most early women's professional sports leagues 
foundered. This is often attributed to a lack of spectator support. Amateur 
competitions became the primary venue for women's sports. Throughout the 
mid-twentieth century, Communist countries dominated many Olympic sports, 
including women's sports, due to state-sponsored athletic programs that 
were technically regarded as amateur. The legacy of these programs endured, 
as former Communist countries continue to produce many of the top female 
athletes. Germany and Scandinavia also developed strong women's athletic 
programs in this period. Young women wearing swimming competition medals, 
around 1920. Fraulein Kussinn and Mrs. Edwards boxing, 1912. Fencer Sibyl 
Marston holding a foil. Edith Cummings was the first woman athlete to appear 
on the cover of Time magazine, a major step in women's athletic history. 
In 1972, the United States government implemented Title IX, a law stating 
that any federally funded program cannot discriminate anyone based on their 
sex.[12] Participation by women in sports increased dramatically after 
its introduction, amid fears that this new law would jeopardize men's sports 
programs.[12][13] Title IX has had a significant impact on athletics at 
the high school and collegiate level for female students. "In 1971, fewer 
than 295,000 girls participated in high school varsity athletics, accounting 
for just 7 percent of all varsity athletes; in 2001, that number leaped 
to 2.8 million, or 41.5 percent of all varsity athletes, according to the 
National Coalition for Women and Girls in Education. In 1966, 16,000 females 
competed in intercollegiate athletics. By 2001, that number jumped to more 
than 150,000, accounting for 43 percent of all college athletes. In addition, 
a 2008 study of intercollegiate athletics showed that women's collegiate 
sports had grown to 9,101 teams, or 8.65 per school".[14] In 1990, Bernadette 
Mattox became the first female Division I coach of a men's basketball team 
at the University of Kentucky. A year later, goaltender Jenny Hanley of 
Hamline University became the first women to play on a men's college ice 
hockey team.[15] By 1994, the number of females playing sports in high 
school had increased threefold since Title IX was implemented, and ground 
was broken for the Women's Basketball Hall of Fame, the first such hall 
of fame devoted to exclusively women athletes. In 1996 the number of female 
high school athletes reached 2.4 million, including 819 football players, 
1164 wrestlers, and 1471 ice hockey players.[15] Sports are high priority 
in Canadian culture, but women were long relegated to second-class status. 
There were regional differences as well, with the eastern provinces emphasizing 
a more feminine "girls rule" game of basketball, while the Western provinces 
preferred identical rules. Girls' and women's sport has traditionally been 
slowed down by a series of factors: girls and women historically have low 
levels of interest and participation; there were very few women in leadership 
positions in academic administration, student affairs or athletics; there 
were few women coaches; the media strongly emphasized men's sports as a 
demonstration of masculinity, suggesting that women seriously interested 
in sports were crossing gender lines; the male sports establishment was 
actively hostile. Staunch feminists dismissed sports as unworthy of their 
support. Women's progress was uphill; they first had to counter the widespread 
notion that women's bodies were so restricted and delicate that vigorous 
physical activity was dangerous. These notions where first challenged by 
the "new woman" around 1900. These women started with bicycling; they rode 
into new gender spaces in education, work, and suffrage. The 1920s marked 
a breakthrough for women, including working-class young women in addition 
to the pioneering middle class sportswomen.[16] The United Kingdom has 
produced a range of major international sports including: association football, 
rugby (union and league), cricket, netball, darts, golf, tennis, table 
tennis, badminton, squash, bowls, rounders, modern rowing,hockey, boxing, 
snooker, billiards, and curling.[17] In the 19th century, women primarily 
participated in the "new games" which included golf, lawn tennis, cycling, 
and hockey. Now, women also participate at a professional/international 
level in football, rugby, cricket, and netball. Since the late 1980's, 
Women In Sport,[18] a non-profit organization, has hoped to transform sport 
for the benefit of women and girls in the UK. Based in London, the organization's 
mission is to "champion the right of every woman and girl in the UK to 
take part in, and benefit from, sport: from the field of play to the boardroom, 
from early years and throughout her life". Women In Sport hopes that by 
creating equal opportunities for women and girls and by increasing visibility 
for women's sport, in the media, and in everyday life, we will inspire 
people to play their part at every level. In order to kickstart this transition, 
the organization breaks down their efforts into three sectors: Insight, 
Campaigning, and Partnerships. Insight describes the company's 30 years 
of in-house and commissioned research that is dedicated to practical application. 
Campaigning revolved around the nation taken to get more women and girls 
involved in sport, and Partnerships relates to collaboration with sport 
funders, businesses, and the government to create opportunities for women 
in all aspects of sport. Individuals may connect with the Women In Sport 
mission by joining the Women’s Sport Network. The network brings together 
professionals from across business and sport who are passionate about developing 
women’s leadership across the sector. In 2016, enhancements were made to 
extend the benefits of the network that specifically target events and 
networking opportunities. These changes include: Other benefits that all 
members can enjoy include: Heather Watson and Fu Yuanhui broke one of the 
last taboos in women's sport when both openly admitted they were menstruating, 
Watson after a self-described poor performance in a tennis match in 2015, 
and Yuanhui at the Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.[19][20] In 1972 women's 
sports in the United States got a boost when the Congress passed the Title 
IX legislation. The United States Congress passed this law as a part of 
the additional Amendment Act to the 1964 Civil Rights Act.[21] Title IX 
states that: "no person shall on the basis of sex, be excluded from participating 
in, be denied benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any 
educational programs or activities receiving federal financial assistance..."[22] 
in other words, Title IX prohibits gender discrimination in schools that 
receive federal funds through grants, scholarships, or other support for 
students. The law states that federal funds can be withdrawn from a school 
engaging in intentional gender discrimination in the provision of curriculum, 
counseling, academic support, or general educational opportunities; this 
includes interscholastic or varsity sports.[23] This law from the Education 
Act requires that both male and female athletes have equal facilities, 
equal benefits. The equal benefits are the necessities such as equal equipment, 
uniforms, supplies, training, practice, quality in coaches and opponents, 
awards, and cheerleaders and bands at the game.[24] In practice, the difficulty 
with Title IX is making sure schools are compliant with the law. In 1979, 
there was a policy interpretation that offered three ways in which schools 
could be compliant with Title IX; it became known as the "three-part test". 
Although schools only have to be compliant with one of the three prongs, 
many schools have not managed to achieve equality. Many schools attempt 
to achieve compliance through the first prong, however, in order to achieve 
that compliance schools cut men's programs which is not the way the OCR 
wanted compliance achieved.[25] Equity is not the only way to be compliant 
with Title IX. To be considered compliant with Title IX, athletic departments 
simply need to show that they are making efforts to achieve parity in participation, 
treatment, and athletic financial assistance.[26] The main objective of 
Title IX is to avoid the discrimination of anyone due to their sex in a 
federally funded program. It was also used to provide protection to those 
who are being descriminated due to their gender.[27] However, Title IX 
is most commonly associated with its impact on athletics and more specifically 
the impact it has had on women's participation in athletics at every age. 
Today there are more females participating in athletics than ever before. 
As of the 2007-2008 school year, females made up 41% of the participants 
in college athletics.[28] To see the growth of women's sports just look 
at the difference in participation before the passing of Title IX and today. 
In 1971-1972 there were 294,015 females participating in high school athletics 
and in 2007-2008 there were over three million females participating, meaning 
there has been a 940% increase in female participation in high school athletics.[28] 
In 1971-1972 there were 29,972 females participating in college athletics 
and in 2007-2008 there were 166,728 females participating, that is a 456% 
increase in female participation in college athletics.[28] In 1971, less 
than 300,000 females played in high school sports. After the law was passed 
many females started to play. By 1990, only eighteen years later, 1.9 million 
female high school students were playing sports.[21] More females are getting 
involved and finding a love and passion for sports that were once seen 
as something for men. Increased participation in sports has had direct 
effects on other areas of women's lives. These effects can be seen in women's 
education and employment later on in life; a recent study found that the 
changes set in motion by Title IX explained about 20 percent of the increase 
in women's education and about 40 percent of the rise in employment for 
25-to-34-year-old women.[29] This is not to say that all women who are 
successful later on in life played sports, but it is saying that women 
who did participate in athletics received benefits in their education and 
employment later on in life.[29] "In 1971, fewer than 295,000 girls participated 
in high school varsity athletics, accounting for just 7 percent of all 
varsity athletes; in 2001, that number leaped to 2.8 million, or 41.5 percent 
of all varsity athletes, according to the National Coalition for Women 
and Girls in Education. In 1966, 16,000 females competed in intercollegiate 
athletics. By 2001, that number jumped to more than 150,000, accounting 
for 43 percent of all college athletes. In addition, a 2008 study of intercollegiate 
athletics showed that women's collegiate sports had grown to 9,101 teams, 
or 8.65 per school. The five most frequently offered college sports for 
women are, in order: (1) basketball, 98.8% of schools have a team, (2) 
volleyball, 95.7%, (3) soccer, 92.0%, (4) cross country, 90.8%, and (5) 
softball, 89.2%. Since 1972, women have also competed in the traditional 
male sports of wrestling, weightlifting, rugby, and boxing. Parents have 
begun to watch their daughters on the playing fields, courts, and on television. 
A recent article in the New York Times found that there are lasting benefits 
for women from Title IX: participation in sports increased education as 
well as employment opportunities for girls. Furthermore, the athletic participation 
by girls and women spurred by Title IX was associated with lower obesity 
rates. No other public health program can claim similar success."[30] "However, 
as part of the backlash against the women's movement, opposition quickly 
organized against Title IX. Worried about how it would affect men's athletics, 
legislators and collegiate sports officials became concerned and looked 
for ways to limit its influence. One argument was that revenue-producing 
sports such as college football should be exempted from Title IX compliance. 
Another was that in order for schools and colleges to comply, they would 
have to cut men's sports such as wrestling. Others argued that federal 
legislation was not the way to achieve equality or even parity. Finally, 
conservative opponents of women's rights believed that feminists used Title 
IX as an all-purpose vehicle to advance their agenda in the schools. Since 
1975, there have been twenty court challenges to Title IX in an attempt 
to whittle down greater gender equity in all fields of education—mirroring 
the ups and downs of the women's movement at large. According to the National 
Federation of State High School Associations, female students received 
1.3 million fewer opportunities to participate in high school athletics 
than their male peers in the 2006–2007 school years. Yet as a result of 
Title IX, women have benefited from involvement in amateur and professional 
sports and, in turn, sports are more exciting with their participation."[30] 
The battle for equality between men's and women's sports continues in the 
2000s. The 2012 London Olympics were the first games of their kind in which 
women competed in every sport.[31] Women make up 54% of enrollment at 832 
schools that responded to an NCAA gender equity study in 2000, however, 
females at these institutions only account for 41% of the athletes. Before 
Title IX 90% of women's college athletic programs were run by women, but 
by 1992 the number dropped to 42% since Title IX requires that there are 
equal opportunities for both genders.[21] This violates Title IX's premise 
that the ratio of female athletes to male athletes should be roughly equivalent 
to the overall proportion of female and male students.[32] Many of the 
issues today often revolve around the amount of money going into men and 
women's sports. According to 2000-2001 figures, men's college programs 
still have many advantages over women's in the average number of scholarships 
(60.5%), operating expenses (64.5%), recruiting expenses (68.2%) and head 
coaching salaries (59.5%).[32] Other forms of inequality are in the coaching 
positions. Before Title IX, women coached 90% of women's teams, in 1978 
that percentage dropped to 58, and in 2004 it dropped even more to 44 percent.[33] 
In 1972, women administered 90 percent of women's athletic programs, in 
2004 this fell to 19 percent and also in 2004 18 percent of all women's 
programs had no women administrators.[33] In 2004 there were 3356 administrative 
jobs in NCAA women's athletic programs and of those jobs women held 35 
percent of them.[33] The fight for equality extends to the wallet. On March 
30, 2016, five players from the U.S. women's soccer team filed a federal 
complaint of wage discrimination against U.S. Soccer, the governing body 
that pays both the men’s and women’s team. The complaint argues that U.S. 
Soccer pays players on the women’s team as little as forty percent of what 
it pays players on the men’s team. This pay discrepancy exists despite 
the fact that the women’s team has been much more successful in international 
competitions; the women’s team has won four Olympic gold medals and three 
of the last five Women’s World Cups, while the men’s team has never won 
either of these competitions.[34] Muslim women are less likely to take 
part in sport than Western non-Muslims.[35] This is particularly so for 
women in Arab societies. The traditions of Islamic modesty in dress and 
requirements for women's sport to take place in a single-sex environment 
make sports participation more difficult for devout female adherents. The 
lack of availability of suitably modest sports clothing and sports facilities 
that allow women to play in private contributes to the lack of participation. 
Cultural norms of women's roles and responsibilities towards the family 
may also be a source of discouragement from time-consuming sports practice.[36][37] 
However, Islamic tenets and religious texts suggest that women's sports 
in general should be promoted and are not against the values of the religion. 
The Quranic statements that followers of Islam should be healthy, fit and 
make time for leisure are not sex-specific. The prophet Muhammad is said 
to have raced his wife Aisha on several occasions, with Aisha beating him 
the first couple of times. Correspondingly, some scholars have proposed 
that Muslim women's lack of engagement with sport is due to cultural or 
societal reasons, rather than strictly religious ones.[36][37] A significant 
barrier to Muslim women's sports participation is bans on the Islamic headscarf, 
commonly known as the hijab.[38] FIFA instituted such a ban in 2011, preventing 
the Iranian women's national football team from competing.[38] They have 
since repealed the ban, but other organizations, including FIBA, maintain 
such regulations.[39] At the same time, many Muslim female athletes have 
achieved significant success in athletic competitions. Some have also used 
sports towards their own empowerment, working for women's rights, education, 
and health and wellbeing.[40][41][42] Researchers[who?] have shown that 
media coverage for women's sports has been significantly less than the 
coverage for men's sports. Millions of young women from all over the world 
play sports every day. However, the number of women playing sports does 
not correspond to the amount of media coverage that they get. In 1989, 
a study was conducted that recorded and compared the amount of media coverage 
of men and women's sports on popular sports commentary shows. Michael Messner 
and his team analyzed three different two-week periods by recording the 
amount of time that the stories were on air and the content of the stories. 
After recording sports news and highlights, they wrote a quantitative description 
of what they saw and a qualitative of the amount of time that story received.[43] 
During that first year that the research was conducted in 1989, it was 
recorded that 5% of the sports segments were based on women's sports, compared 
to the 92% that were based on men's sports and the 3% that was a combination 
of both. In 1999, women's sports coverage reached an all-time high when 
it was recorded at 8.7%. It maintained its higher percentages until it 
reached an all-time low in 2009, decreasing to 1.6%. The researchers also 
measured the amount of time that women's sports were reported in the news 
ticker, the strip that displays information at the bottom of most news 
broadcasts. When recorded in 2009, 5% of ticker coverage was based on women's 
sports, compared to the 95% that was based on men's sports. These percentages 
were recorded in order to compare the amount of media coverage for each 
gender. When researching the actual amount of time that women's sports 
stories were mentioned, they focused specifically on differences between 
the National Basketball Association (NBA) and the Women's National Basketball 
Association. They recorded two different time periods: when they were in 
season and when they were off-season. The WNBA had 8 stories, totaling 
5:31 minutes, during their season, which was less than the NBA, which had 
a total of 72 stories, totaling approximately 65:51 minutes. During the 
off-season, the WNBA did not receive any stories or time on the ticker, 
while the NBA received a total of 81, which were approximately 50:15 minutes. 
When compared, the WNBA had a total of 8 stories and 5:31 minutes while 
the NBA had 153 stories and 1:56:06 hours. The actual games had several 
differences in the way the games were presented. The findings were that 
WNBA games had lower sound quality, more editing mistakes, fewer views 
of the shot clock and fewer camera angles. There was less verbal commentary 
and visual statistics about the players throughout the games as well.[44] 
The quality of the stories has also significantly changed. In past studies, 
women were sexualized, portrayed as violent, or portrayed as girlfriends, 
wives and mothers. Female athletes were often included in gag stories that 
involved sexual dialogue or emphasized their bodies. In Australia, the 
wives of the men's cricket team members were given more media coverage 
than the players on the women's cricket team, who also had won more games 
than the men's rugby team.[45] In 2009, SportsCenter broadcast segments 
called "Her Story", which was a commentary that highlighted women's athletic 
careers.[46] In newspapers articles, coverage on men's sports once again 
had a greater number of articles than women's sports in a ratio of 23–1. 
In 1990, a study was conducted that recorded and compared the amount of 
media coverage of men and women's sports on popular newspapers. They analyzed 
four different sports magazines for three months and recorded the amount 
of women's sports stories that were featured and the content of the stories. 
Women's sports made up 3.5%, compared to the 81% of men's coverage. The 
lengths of these articles were 25–27% shorter than the length of men's 
articles.[47] There was an international frenzy in 2012 when the first 
woman that represented Saudi Arabia in the 2012 Olympics competed in track. 
That was the most women's sports coverage that there had been in several 
years.[citation needed] Exactly 12 months later, the newspapers returned 
to featuring only 4% of articles on women's sports.[48] This same trend 
can be seen with regards to the FIFA World Cup. The 2015 Women’s World 
Cup Final had an average of 25.4 million American viewers throughout the 
duration of the match, and peaked at 30.9 million viewers.[49] It was the 
most-viewed game of soccer ever in the United States–men’s or women’s–by 
a margin of almost 7 million viewers. Despite this jump in viewership of 
women’s soccer in the U.S., television broadcasting of the women’s professional 
soccer league in the U.S. remained much lower than that of the men’s league. 
Fox Sports Network (the company that owns the rights to broadcast the National 
Women’s Soccer League) will broadcast 3 regular season NWSL games and 34 
Major League Soccer regular season games during the 2016 seasons. Amy Godoy-Pressland 
conducted a study that investigated the relationship between sports reporting 
and gender in Great Britain. She studied Great Britain's newspapers from 
January 2008 to December 2009 and documented how media coverage of men's 
sports and women's sports was fairly equal during the Olympics and then 
altered after the Olympics were over. "Sportswomen are disproportionately 
under-represented and the sheer quantity and quality of news items on sportsmen 
demonstrates how male athletes are represented as dominant and superior 
to females." She also documented how women's bodies were sexualized in 
photographs and written coverage, noting that the women featured were either 
nude, semi-nude, or wearing revealing clothing. "The sexualisation of sportswomen 
in Sunday reporting is commonplace and aimed at the mostly male readership. 
It promotes the idea of female aesthetics over achievements, while the 
coverage of women not directly involved in sport misrepresents the place 
of women in sport and inferiorizes real sportswomen's achievements."[50] 
The media has the ability to create or prevent interest in women's sports. 
Excluding women's sports from the media makes it much less likely for young 
girls to have role models that are women athletes.[51] According to Tucker 
Center for Research on Girls & Women in Sport at the University of Minnesota 
40% of all athletes in the United States are women but women's sports only 
receive about 4% of sports media coverage.[52] This amount of coverage 
has decreased in the last 20 years although there has been a major increase 
in women athletes. The media coverage received by women athletes has increasingly 
become sexualized.[citation needed] This representative data is showcasing 
a main part of the minimal interaction the media has with women athletes. 
Scholarly studies (Kane, M. J., LaVoi, N. M., Fink, J. S. (2013) show that 
when women athletes were given the option to pick a photo of a picture 
that would increase respect for their sport, they picked an on-the-court 
competency picture. However, when women athletes were told to pick a picture 
that would increase interest in their sport, 47% picked a picture that 
sexualized the women athlete.[53] The UK is more representative than the 
United States with the BBC giving women's sports about 20% of their sports 
coverage (BBC spokesperson). Many women athletes in the UK do not see this 
as adequate coverage for the 36% of women who participate in sports.[54] 
Girls' and boys' participation rates in sports varies by country and region. 
In the United States today, nearly all schools require student participation 
in sports, guaranteeing that all girls were exposed to athletics at an 
early age, which was generally not the case in Western Europe and Latin 
America.[citation needed] In intramural sports, the genders were often 
mixed, though for competitive sports the genders remained segregated. Title 
IX legislation required colleges and universities to provide equal athletic 
opportunities for women. This large pool of female athletes enabled the 
U.S. to consistently rank among the top nations in women's Olympic sports, 
and female Olympians from skater Peggy Fleming (1968) to Mary Lou Retton 
(1986) became household names.[citation needed] Tennis was the most-popular 
professional female sport from the 1970s onward,[citation needed] and it 
provided the occasion for a symbolic "battle of the sexes" between Billie 
Jean King and Bobby Riggs, enhancing the profile of female athletics.[citation 
needed] The success of women's tennis, however, did little to help the 
fortunes of women's professional team sports.[citation needed] Women's 
professional team sports achieved popularity for the first time in the 
1990s, particularly in basketball and football (soccer).[citation needed] 
This popularity has been asymmetric, being strongest in the U.S., certain 
European countries and former Communist states.[citation needed] Thus, 
women's soccer was originally dominated by the U.S., China, and Norway, 
who have historically fielded weak men's national teams. However,[when?] 
several nations with strong and even dominant men's national teams, such 
as Germany, Sweden, and Brazil, have established themselves as women's 
powers.[citation needed] Despite this increase in popularity, women's professional 
sports leagues continue to struggle financially. The WNBA is operated at 
a loss by the NBA,[citation needed] perhaps in the hope of creating a market 
that will eventually be profitable. A similar approach is used to promote 
women's boxing, as women fighters are often undercards on prominent male 
boxing events, in the hopes of attracting an audience.[citation needed] 
The National Women's Hockey League is an American women's professional 
ice hockey league, and the United Women's Lacrosse League is an American 
women's professional lacrosse league; both were established in 2015. Today, 
women compete professionally and as amateurs in virtually every major sport, 
though the level of participation typically decreases when it comes to 
the more violent contact sports; few schools have women's programs in American 
football, boxing or wrestling.[citation needed] However, these typical 
non-participation habits may slowly be evolving as more women take real 
interest in the games, for example Katie Hnida became the first woman ever 
to score points in a Division I NCAA American football game when she kicked 
two extra-points for the University of New Mexico in 2003.[citation needed] 
Modern sports have seen the development of a higher profile for female 
athletes in other historically male sports, such as golf, marathons or 
ice hockey.[citation needed] As of 2013, the only sports that men but not 
women play professionally in the United States are football, baseball, 
and Ultimate Frisbee. Recently there has been much more crossover as to 
which sports males and females participate in, although there are still 
some differences. For example, at the 1992 Winter Olympics, both genders 
were allowed to participate in the sport of figure skating, previously 
a female-only sporting event. However, the programs for the event required 
men to perform three triple jumps, and women only one. A female athlete 
from the University of California, San Diego playing soccer. Olympic Games 
track gold medalist Meseret Defar of Ethiopia. Master Hao Zhihua, the most 
accomplished female Wushu athlete in China's history. Dutch cyclist Ellen 
van Dijk, at the 2012 Summer Olympics. Fernanda Brito of Chile playing 
women's doubles tennis at Wimbledon in 2010. A collage of Italian international 
