Women's basketball is one of the few[citation needed] women's sports that 
developed in tandem with its men's counterpart. It became popular, spreading 
from the east coast of the United States to the west coast, in large part 
via women's colleges. From 1895 until 1970, the term "women's basketball" 
was also used to refer to netball, which evolved in parallel with modern 
women's basketball. The FIBA Women's Basketball World Cup features the 
top national teams from continental championships. The main North American 
league is the WNBA, whereas the EuroLeague Women has been dominated by 
teams from the Russian Women's Basketball Premier League. The NCAA Women's 
Division I Basketball Championship is also popular in the United States. 
Women's basketball began in the winter of 1892 at Smith College. Senda 
Berenson, an instructor at Smith, taught basketball to her students, hoping 
the activity would improve their physical health.[1] Basketball's early 
adherents were affiliated with YMCAs and colleges throughout the United 
States, and the game quickly spread throughout the country.[citation needed] 
However, Berenson was taking risks simply in teaching the game to women. 
She worried a little about the women suffering from "nervous fatigue" if 
games were too strenuous for them. And, in order to keep it "acceptable" 
for women to play at all, she taught modified rules. These included a court 
divided into three areas and nine players per team. Three players were 
assigned to each area (guard, center, forward) and could not cross the 
line into another area. The ball was moved from section to section by passing 
or dribbling. Players were limited to three dribbles and could hold the 
ball for three seconds. No snatching or batting the ball away from a player 
was allowed. A center jump was required after each score. Peach baskets 
and the soccer ball were the equipment. Variations of Berenson’s rules 
spread across the country via YMCAs and colleges.[citation needed] The 
first intercollegiate women's basketball game was played between teams 
from Stanford University and the University of California, Berkeley, in 
1896.[2] The popularity of women's basketball grew steadily around the 
world for decades. By the 1970s the sport had attracted the notice the 
International Olympic Committee, which added women's basketball as an official 
sport of the Olympic Games in 1976. Throughout the 1970s, funding for (and 
interest in) women's basketball began to dramatically increase as schools 
receiving federal funding began to come into compliance with new laws mandating 
a lack of discrimination based on sex. The sport was also gaining attention 
at the collegiate level, under the auspices of the Association of Intercollegiate 
Athletics for Women (AIAW). A major development in women's basketball occurred 
in 1982 when the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) began 
to sponsor the sport.[citation needed]. After several failed attempts at 
women's professional leagues in the U.S., the NBA founded the WNBA in 1996. 
Rules for women's basketball are nearly the same as the rules for men's 
basketball. Probably the biggest difference is that the circumference of 
the women’s basketball is one inch smaller than the circumference of the 
size of the men's basketball. Also, in American professional basketball, 
the women’s three-point line is slightly closer to the basket than men’s. 
In college basketball in the US, the women use a 30-second shot clock instead 
of a 35-second clock. The regulation WNBA ball is a minimum 28.5 inches 
(72.4 cm) in circumference, which is 1.00 inch (2.54 cm) smaller than the 
NBA ball.This is a standard size 6 ball. As of 2008, this size is used 
for all senior-level women's competitions worldwide.[3] The standard court 
size in U.S. college and WNBA play is 94 feet long by 50 feet wide. The 
FIBA standard court is slightly smaller at 28 metres long by 15 metres 
wide (91 ft 10.4 in by 49 ft 2.6 in). The three-point line is 20 feet and 
6.25 inches (6.25 m) from the middle of the basket in WNBA competition 
but 6.75 m (22 ft 1.7 in) in FIBA competition. Also, there is no block/charge 
arc under the basket in WNBA, whereas FIBA's 2010 rules created a 1.25 
m (4 ft 1 in) block/charge arc. The WNBA shot clock was changed from 30 
to 24 seconds, which has been in FIBA play since 2000. Women’s NCAA college 
basketball uses a 30-second shot clock. Most high school games are played 
with four 8-minute quarters, while NCAA, WNBA, and FIBA games are played 
in four 10 minute quarters and in 2015-2016 the NCAA changed the rules 
to 10 minute quarters from 20 minute halves.[4] Women's basketball is governed 
internationally by the International Basketball Federation (FIBA). Since 
1953 FIBA has hosted a world championship tournament for women, currently 
known as the FIBA Women's Basketball World Cup. The event, renamed from 
"FIBA World Championship for Women" after its 2014 edition, is currently 
held in even-numbered non-Summer Olympic years. There has been some concern 
about the reach of the sport after one governing body disallowed Muslim 
women playing in hijabs.[5] Berenson's freshmen played the sophomore class 
in the first women's collegiate basketball game held on 22 March 1893. 
University of California and Miss Head's School, had played the first women's 
extramural game in 1892. Also in 1893, Mount Holyoke and Sophie Newcomb 
College, coached by Clara Gregory Baer, the inventor of Newcomb ball) women 
began playing basketball. By 1895, the game had spread to colleges across 
the country, including Wellesley, Vassar and Bryn Mawr. The first intercollegiate 
women's game was on 4 April 1896. Stanford women played California, 9-on-9, 
ending in a 2–1 Stanford victory. Clara Gregory Baer published the first 
book of rules for women's basketball in 1895 she first called the game 
'Basquette', a name later dropped in her first revision of rules called 
Newcomb College Basketball Rules published in 1908.[6] In 1971 five player, 
full court game was adopted followed by women's sports foundation which 
was formed in 1974.[7] Women's college basketball remains very popular 
throughout North America, with the sports being sponsored by all of the 
major college athletic associations: the NCAA, the NAIA, the NJCAA, the 
NCCAA, the CCAA and the CIS. Division I of the NCAA is considered the highest 
level of college competition, with the winner of the annual NCAA Women's 
Division I Basketball Championship game declared 'national champion.' The 
University of Connecticut Huskies have won the last four NCAA Division 
I national championships (2013–2016).[8] There have been several professional 
leagues established in several countries including the United States, Europe, 
Japan, England and Australia. Though it was originally an American sport, 
it quickly spread internationally and outstanding players and teams are 
found today all over the world. Women's basketball leagues now exist in 
most areas of the world including Australia,[9] Asia, South America, and 
Europe.[10] Women's basketball has been contested in the Summer Olympics 
since 1976.[11] In addition to the Olympics and Women's World Cup, women's 
basketball is also contested in the Pan American Games and the Central 
American and Caribbean Games. Women's basketball made its first appearance 
at the Commonwealth Games in 2006. Basketball (for both men and women) 
is one of the sports that the host nation of the Island Games may select 
for competition. Women also compete in wheelchair basketball in the Paralympic 
Games.[citation needed] The FIBA Africa Women's Championship is the women's 
basketball continental championship of Africa, played biennially under 
the auspices of FIBA, the basketball sport governing body, and the African 
zone thereof. The tournament also serves to qualify teams for participation 
in the quadrennial FIBA Women's Basketball World Cup and the Olympic basketball 
tournament. One of the major important events in the development of women's 
basketball in the United States was Title IX. Title IX was passed in 1972 
to end sexual discrimination and stereotyping in admission to colleges 
and also in academic subjects (McDonagh, Pappano, 2008). Therefore, Congress’ 
original goal was eliminating this discrimination in academic and educational 
processes. “Title IX is today generally viewed as having fixed the problem 
of gender inequality of sports, at least in educational settings” (McDonagh, 
Pappano, 2008, 79). It started out as simply involving education but then 
shifted in a debate to sports. Some groups such as the NCAA fought to keep 
things the way they were in reference to men’s sports. The NCAA had built 
up the programs and earned financial support and popularity and did not 
want to throw that down the drain (McDonagh, Pappano, 2008). In 1974, the 
Department of Health, Education, and Welfare issued Title IX regulations 
regarding intercollegiate athletics (McDonagh, Pappano, 2008). Title IX 
implies that if a school has a specific sport’s team for boys then they 
must have a team in that same sport for girls. This will occur unless the 
men’s sport happens to be a contact sport in which the rule will not necessarily 
apply (McDonagh, Pappano, 2008). In 1978, colleges and universities were 
forced to apply Title IX’s rules and regulations. Athletic departments 
had to adhere to one of three requirements which were the proportionality 
rule, the gender equity rule, or historical progress rule (McDonagh, Pappano, 
2008). Each of these requirements addressed Title IX and its regulations 
in a fair manner. To ensure that schools comply with Title IX, they face 
the consequence of losing federal funding for any violation (Sadker, 2001). 
The proportionality rule entails that a school provides opportunities proportional 
to its enrollment. As an example, if a school is 55% male and 45% female 
then the athletic participation should be 55:45 (McDonagh, Pappano, 2008). 
Not only does the proportionality rule apply to athletic participation, 
but it also addresses scholarships. “So if a college is spending $400,000 
per year on athletic scholarships and half of the athletic participants 
are women then half of that amount, $200,000, should be funding athletic 
scholarships for women (McDonagh, Pappano, 2008, 299). The gender equity 
rule entails that a school must prove that it “meets the interest of the 
gender that is underrepresented” (McDonagh, Pappano, 2008, 107) which happens 
to be women. The historical progress rule entails that if a school is unable 
to provide proportional opportunities then they must put forth an effort 
to create more opportunities for the underrepresented gender (McDonagh, 
Pappano, 2008).[12] Between 1971 and 2000, Title IX has proven to have 
had a huge impact on female collegiate sports. “Sports participation among 
college women has risen from 372 percent over that time, from 32,000 to 
more than 150,000 women (McDonagh, Pappano, 2008, 108). Also now 33.5% 
of female students participate in sports (McDonagh, Pappano, 2008). The 
issue still remaining is that women’s sports beyond college do not benefit 
from Title IX. As a whole, they make less income than men in professional 
sports which Title IX cannot do much about. However due to Title IX some 
women have gotten recognition as a result of the debate. “Women athletes 
receive greater respect today but relatively skimpy media attention. Thank 
Title IX for…the growing visibility of women’s college basketball that 
has USA Today producing a pullout section for the women’s NCAA March Madness 
tournament” (McDonagh, Pappano, 2008, 109).[12] Professional women's basketball 
has been played in the United States. There have been several leagues, 
the most recent of which is the WNBA. The first attempt was the Women's 
Pro Basketball League. The league played three seasons from the fall of 
1978 to the spring of 1981. The league is generally considered to be the 
first American professional women's basketball league to be founded.[13] 
The second women's professional league to be created in the United States 
was the WBA. The league played three seasons from the summer of 1993 to 
the summer of 1995. The league is considered to be the first American professional 
women's basketball league to be successful as a summer league, like the 
WNBA. The league played three full seasons with plans to play as a 12-team 
league in 1997 but disbanded before 1997 season.[citation needed] The WBA 
played a 15-game schedule and games were broadcast on Liberty Sports of 
Dallas. When FOX Sports purchased Liberty Sports and the WBA, they disbanded 
the league.[citation needed] In 1996, two professional women's leagues 
were started in the United States. They were the American Basketball League 
and the WNBA. The American Basketball League was founded in 1996 during 
an increase in the interest in the sport following the 1996 Summer Olympics. 
The league played two full seasons (1996–97 and 1997–98) and started a 
third (1998–99) before it folded on 22 December 1998.[14] The Women's National 
Basketball Association or WNBA is an organization governing a professional 
basketball league for women in the United States. The WNBA was formed in 
1996 as the women's counterpart to the National Basketball Association, 
and league play began in 1997. The regular WNBA season is June to September 
(North American Spring and Summer). Most WNBA teams play at the same venue 
as their NBA counterparts. Most team names are also very similar to those 
of NBA teams in the same market, such as the Washington Wizards and Washington 
Mystics, the Minnesota Timberwolves and Minnesota Lynx. Officially approved 
by the NBA Board of Governors on 24 April 1996, the creation of the WNBA 
was first announced at a press conference with Rebecca Lobo, Lisa Leslie 
and Sheryl Swoopes in attendance. While not the first major women's professional 
basketball league in the United States (a distinction held by the defunct 
WBL), the WNBA is the only league to receive full backing of the NBA. On 
the heels of a much-publicized gold medal run by the 1996 USA Basketball 
Women's National Team at the 1996 Summer Olympic Games, the WNBA began 
its first season on 21 June 1997 to much fanfare. The league began with 
eight teams. The first WNBA game featured the New York Liberty facing the 
Los Angeles Sparks in Los Angeles and was televised nationally, in the 
United States, on the NBC television network. At the start of the 1997 
season, the WNBA had television deals in place with NBC, ESPN and Lifetime 
Television Network. The league is divided into two conferences, the Eastern 
Conference and the Western Conference. Each of the 12 teams play a 34-game 
regular season schedule, beginning in June and ending in mid September. 
The four teams in each conference with the best Win/Loss records go on 
to compete in the WNBA Playoffs during September with the WNBA Finals in 
early October. An All-Star Game is typically held in the middle of July, 
while regular play stops temporarily for it. In Olympic years, there is 
no all-star game, but a break of about five weeks in the middle of the 
WNBA season allows players to participate in the Olympics as members of 
their national teams. There have been a total of 18 teams in WNBA history. 
A total of five teams have folded: the Charlotte Sting, the Cleveland Rockers, 
Houston Comets, the Miami Sol and the Portland Fire. Three other teams 
have moved—the Utah Starzz to San Antonio, where they are now the Stars; 
the Orlando Miracle to Uncasville, Connecticut, where they now play as 
the Connecticut Sun; and the Detroit Shock to Tulsa, Oklahoma, where they 
played as the Tulsa Shock, until a relocation to Dallas, Texas in 2015 
where they now play as the Dallas Wings.[15] The Women's Chinese Basketball 
Association (WCBA) is a professional women's basketball league established 
in 2002.[16] The Women's Hong Kong Basketball Association is the highest 
women's professional club basketball competition in Hong Kong.[17] The 
Indian National Basketball Championship for Women is a professional basketball 
tournament in India for women [18] The Women's Japan Basketball League 
is a premier women's basketball league in Japan.[19] The Lebanese Basketball 
League or FLB League is the top-tier professional basketball league in 
Lebanon. The Women's Philippine Basketball League was a women's basketball 
league in the Philippines[20] The Women's Korean Basketball League (WKBL) 
is the premier women's basketball league in South Korea[21] The Women's 
Super Basketball League is the highest women's professional club basketball 
competition in Republic of China[22] The Russian Women's Basketball Premier 
League is the dominant league in Europe. Other notable leagues are the 
Italian Serie A1 and Turkish Women's Basketball League. Professional basketball 
exists in England. Women's English Basketball League is major professional 
competition. The league has grown steadily over recent years, and has now 
reached a level of thirty national league sides. The league is split into 
two levels. Division 1 is as close to professional as women's sport gets 
in the United Kingdom, with teams such as Rhondda Rebels and Sheffield 
Hatters bringing in players from the USA and Europe. The Nottingham Wildcats 
make up the trio of clubs that helped establish the women's league and 
remain amongst the top three or four places. The gap between these top 
teams and the rest of the league has remained, but gradually as the women's 
game has developed, the gulf in results has been reduced, and each year 
there have been more competitive games.[citation needed] Promotion from 
Division 2 has always reinforced the gap between the two leagues, as the 
winner of the Division 2 promotion play-offs has found the step-up difficult. 
The Division 2 play-offs take the top four teams from the North and South 
of the Second Divisions, with the top playing the bottom of the other pool. 
This year (2006/7) saw several new teams join the second division, showing 
the continual growth of the women's game.[citation needed] These included 
the SevenOaks Suns, Enfield Phoenix, Taunton Tigers[23] and Bristol Storm.[24] 
Professional women's basketball exists in Australia in the form of the 
Women's National Basketball League. The league was founded in 1981 as a 
way for the best women's basketball teams in the various Australian States 
to compete against each other on a regular basis. Today the WNBL is the 
