Women have a long history in American baseball and many women's teams have 
existed over the years. Baseball was played at women's colleges in New 
York and New England as early as the mid-nineteenth century;[1] teams were 
formed at Vassar College, Smith College, Wellesley College, and Mount Holyoke 
College.[2] An African American women's team, the Philadelphia Dolly Vardens, 
was formed in 1867.[3] A number of women's barnstorming teams have existed,[4] 
and women have played alongside major league players in exhibition games. 
On April 2, 1931, 17-year-old Jackie Mitchell (originally known as 'Virne 
Beatrice Mitchell Gilbert') of the Chattanooga Lookouts struck out both 
Babe Ruth and Lou Gehrig in an exhibition game. Commissioner of Baseball 
Landis threw a hissy-fit and voided her contract as a result.[5] In 1946, 
former player Edith Houghton became the first woman to work as an independent 
scout in Major League Baseball when she was hired by the Philadelphia Phillies 
of the National League.[6] In 1989, NBC's Gayle Gardner became the first 
woman to regularly host Major League Baseball games for a major television 
network. In 2015, Jessica Mendoza was the first female analyst for a Major 
League Baseball game in the history of ESPN, Margaret Donahue was the first 
female front office executive in Major League Baseball who was not an owner. 
There is some evidence that women were playing base ball (as it was then 
called) as far back as the 1860s,[7] but it was not normal for young ladies 
to play what was considered a man's sport. In fact, until the early 1890s, 
when the bicycle craze hit America, women who wanted to get some outdoor 
exercise were usually discouraged from doing so.[8] But in the late 1890s, 
there were some organized efforts to have all-female baseball teams, several 
of which enjoyed success. One of the most successful was the Boston Bloomer 
Girls baseball club; they took their name from the comfortable pants that 
some sports-minded young women had begun to wear instead of a long skirt. 
Young women who went against traditional fashion norms and chose bloomers 
were often called "bloomer girls." [9] While in some cities, local authorities 
banned women's baseball teams, including the Bloomer Girls,[10] in other 
cities, the club was welcomed by curious fans who had never seen female 
ballplayers.[11] The Bloomer Girls toured the United States in 1897; the 
press referred to them as the "champion women's club of the world",[12] 
although this may have been marketing hyperbole, given that the team often 
seemed inexperienced and did not play very well. One regular standout for 
the Bloomers was pitcher Maud Nelson, whose talents as a player were praised 
by reporters; but her teammates did not seem to have as much polish or 
skill as she did.[13] As they gained more experience, they began to play 
with more confidence; while still regarded as a novelty, the club often 
drew large crowds of appreciative fans, many of whom came to see Maud Nelson 
and her curve ball.[14] The Boston Bloomers were still touring and playing 
baseball in the early 1900s; by 1907-1908, their team also included several 
male players, but the majority of the team continued to be female.[15] 
Although female teams like the Bloomers were always considered a novelty, 
by the early 1920s, there were several female players who were attracting 
attention at the amateur and semi-pro level and were considered talented 
enough to play for all-male teams. Perhaps the best known young woman playing 
baseball in the early 1920s was Rhode Island's Lizzie Murphy. A first baseman, 
she played for the Providence (RI) Independents, and was praised by newspaper 
reporters for her fielding skills. Sportswriters said she was every bit 
as talented as a male player, and noted that she was paid $300 a week, 
more than many minor league players of the 1920s received.[16] Murphy, 
who had begun playing baseball when she was only ten, had dreams of becoming 
a major league player, but she was not able to achieve that goal.[17] She 
was, however, able to have a long career in the semi-pro leagues, leading 
a touring team that played all over the eastern United States. According 
to newspaper accounts, she developed a loyal following, with numerous fans 
who came out to watch her and her team play.[18] Lizzie Murphy's baseball 
career lasted from 1918 to 1935, and included one charity exhibition game 
in which she was part of a team of all-stars who played against the Boston 
Red Sox.[19] While Murphy was perhaps the best-known woman playing for 
an all male team in the 1920s, there was at least one other woman athlete 
whose abilities included playing baseball. Philadelphia's Betty Schenkel 
not only played baseball with the boys during high school, but she was 
said to be adept in other sports, including basketball, soccer, and cycling.[20] 
During World War II, over 500 baseball players, including super-stars like 
Ted Williams, Stan Musial and Joe DiMaggio, were drafted.[21] This left 
major league rosters depleted and severely diminished the level of talent 
in the league. The owner of the Chicago Cubs, Philip K. Wrigley formed 
a committee to come up with ideas to keep baseball financially afloat during 
the war. The result of that committee was the organization of the All-American 
Girls Professional Baseball League, which operated from 1943 to 1954. At 
the height of its popularity, it had teams in twelve cities.[22] One of 
the most successful of the teams in the league was the Rockford (IL) Peaches, 
which won four championships. The Peaches, and the All-American Girls Professional 
Baseball League, were commemorated in a 1992 movie, A League of Their Own, 
starring Geena Davis.[23] In 2008, Eri Yoshida, at 16 years old, became 
Japan's first professional female baseball player to play in a men's league 
by signing a professional contract with a new Japanese independent league. 
In April 2010, she signed a contract with the Chico Outlaws, becoming the 
first woman to play professionally in two countries. In 2009, Justine Siegal 
became the first female coach of a men's professional baseball team.[24] 
In 2011, she was the first woman to throw batting practice to a MLB team, 
the Cleveland Indians at spring training.[25] She also threw BP to the 
Oakland Athletics, Tampa Bay Rays, St. Louis Cardinals, Houston Astros, 
and New York Mets.[26][27][28][29] In 2015, Justine Siegal became the Oakland 
Athletics guest instructor for their Instructional League Club, thus making 
her the first female coach in professional baseball history.[30] For one 
day in May of 2016, Jennie Finch was a guest manager for the Atlantic League's 
Bridgeport Bluefish, thus becoming the first woman to manage a professional 
baseball team.[31] The team played and won one game that day.[31] In 1989, 
NBC's Gayle Gardner became the first woman to regularly host Major League 
Baseball games for a major television network. In 1990, CBS Sports' Lesley 
Visser became the first female to cover the World Series, serving as their 
lead field reporter. In addition to working the World Series from 1990-1993 
for CBS, Visser covered the 1995 World Series for ABC Sports via The Baseball 
Network. On August 3, 1993, Gayle Gardner became the first woman to do 
television play-by-play for a Major League Baseball game. It was the Colorado 
Rockies vs. Cincinnati Reds on KWGN-TV in Denver. Also in 1993, CBS' Andrea 
Joyce became the first woman to co-host the network television coverage 
of the World Series. Joyce co-hosted that particular World Series with 
Pat O'Brien. In 1995, NBC's Hannah Storm not only became the first female 
to serve as solo host a World Series game, but also the first female to 
preside over the World Series Trophy presentation. In 2009, New York Yankees 
broadcaster Suzyn Waldman[32] became the first woman to work a World Series 
game from the broadcast booth. On August 24, 2015, Jessica Mendoza was 
the first female analyst for a Major League Baseball game in the history 
of ESPN, during a game between the St. Louis Cardinals and the Arizona 
Diamondbacks.[33] John Kruk, Dan Shulman and Jessica Mendoza called the 
2015 American League Wild Card Game on October 6, and Mendoza became the 
first female analyst in MLB postseason history.[34] There is evidence that 
at least one woman, Amanda Clement, was umpiring semi-professional games 
as early as 1905.[35] "Mandy," as she was called, grew up near a ballpark 
in her hometown of Hudson, South Dakota, where was introduced to baseball 
by her brother Henry.[36] Miss Clement began umpiring while a student at 
Yankton College, and gained fame nation-wide for her knowledge of baseball 
and her accuracy in umpiring the games. She was paid between $10 and $15 
per game, which helped pay her tuition.[37] She umpired games in North 
Dakota, Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska, and South Dakota until at least 1909, 
and later became a physical education instructor for high school and college 
women's teams.[38] She still would umpire an occasional semi-pro game in 
South Dakota even during the 1910s.[39] There were several other woman 
umpires in the early 1920s: one was Mrs. Deana Ernest of Toledo, Ohio, 
who umpired semi-pro games in the area, and also managed a city league 
team there.[40] Another was Nina Belle Hurst, a resident of Sawtelle, California, 
who umpired in the Southern California Baseball Managers Association.[41] 
During World War II, there were also some women who umpired, including 
some the press jokingly referred to as "WUMPS" (women umpires). Among them 
was Lorraine Heinisch, of Kenosha WI, who umpired semi-pro games in 1943, 
including a championship game in Wichita, Kansas.[42] The first woman to 
umpire a professional game was Bernice Gera. A former Little League coach 
and a passionate fan of baseball, she entered umpiring school in 1967 (the 
first woman ever to attend the Fort Lauderdale Baseball School).[43] After 
a lengthy court battle with major league baseball, she finally won the 
right to umpire. Her first pro game was in the minor leagues in June 1972—a 
game between the Auburn Phillies and Geneva Rangers in the New York-Penn 
League, but after several disputed calls, she decided to resign and never 
umpired another professional game.[44] The first woman to own a baseball 
team was Helene Hathaway Britton, who owned the St. Louis Cardinals National 
League baseball team from 1911 through 1916.[45] Margaret Donahue was the 
first female front office executive in Major League Baseball who was not 
an owner. She worked for the Chicago Cubs from 1919 to 1958 and introduced 
marketing concepts such as the season ticket and reduced prices for children 
under 12, both still used in the 2000s.[46] Since then, many women have 
held executive positions in business and financial areas of Major League 
Baseball. However, there have not been many women who have become player 
personnel. Though there are many women who have been hired as general managers 
(GM) for Minor League affiliates, these positions are not responsible for 
player personnel moves. This is handled at the Major League level. One 
woman who has a position in Player Personnel at the Major League level 
is Kim Ng. She first worked for the Chicago White Sox, where she successfully 
presented an arbitration case. After working for the American League as 
director of waivers and records, she was hired as Assistant GM by the New 
York Yankees. When she left the Yankees in 2001 for the same position with 
the Los Angeles Dodgers, the Yankees hired another woman to replace her, 
Jean Afterman. Afterman still holds the same position as of July 2015. 
Kim Ng has since moved on to work for Major League Baseball as Senior Vice 
