The Women's Professional Basketball League (abbreviated WBL) was a professional 
women's basketball league in the United States. The league played three 
seasons from the fall of 1978 to the spring of 1981. The league was the 
first professional women's basketball league in the United States.[1] The 
league began with a player draft held in Manhattan's Essex House in July 
1978, with eight teams participating. While few of the teams had firm commitments 
on playing locations (or team names, for that matter), the league planned 
to play a 34-game season with teams in Chicago, Houston, Iowa, Milwaukee, 
Minneapolis, New Jersey, New York City and Washington, D.C. Houston drafted 
Ann Meyers from UCLA, while New Jersey's top choice Carol Blazejowski of 
Montclair State University said that she wanted to retain her amateur standing 
to be eligible to play in the 1980 Summer Olympics. Lusia Harris, a collegiate 
star at Delta State University, was selected by the Houston team, but was 
reluctant to commit to playing after hearing the $3,000 to $5,000 salaries 
estimated by the Minnesota franchise. With its last pick in the draft, 
the Cornets selected Uljana Semjonova, a 6-foot-11-inch player for the 
Soviet Union's national women's basketball team who would be inducted as 
an inaugural member of the Women's Basketball Hall of Fame in the class 
of 1999, but would never play a game in the WBL. The New Jersey Gems selected 
Carol Blazejowski from Montclair State College, but she announced while 
on tour in Bulgaria with the U.S. national women's team through her coach 
Maureen Wendelken that she had no intention of playing professionally and 
that her goal was to retain her amateur standing to be able to play for 
the U.S. at the 1980 Summer Olympics.[2] Molly Bolin, who grew up in Moravia, 
Iowa, became the first player signed by any team in the WBL when she was 
signed by the Iowa Cornets.[3] The league played its first game on December 
9, 1978, between the Chicago Hustle and the Milwaukee Does at the Milwaukee 
Arena, with the league's inaugural game attracting four minutes of coverage 
in the previous night's CBS Evening News with Walter Cronkite. Milwaukee 
mayor Henry Maier issued a proclamation likening this first game to the 
first professional football game, played in Latrobe, Pennsylvania, and 
the first pro baseball game, played in Cincinnati.[4] The league was divided 
into two divisions, with Chicago, Milwaukee, the Iowa Cornets and Minnesota 
Fillies playing in the Western Division, while the Dayton Rockettes, Houston 
Angels, New Jersey Gems and New York Stars were in the East. The eight 
initial teams paid $50,000 for their franchise, while the four teams to 
be added for the 1979–80 season were expected to pay $100,000, and $250,000 
per team for each of four more teams in the following season. The Does 
had a crowd of 7,824 at the game, which saw the hometown team lose to Chicago 
92–87, with Debra Waddy Rossow scoring 30 points to lead the Hustle.[4] 
The league was able to arrange an all-star game in 1979, which was played 
at the Felt Forum in New York City's Madison Square Garden in front of 
2,731 fans. The game was hastily arranged and inserted into the league's 
schedule, using a court borrowed from the United States Military Academy 
at West Point, and forcing some players to have to make hectic travel arrangements 
to get to their next regular season game. The East beat the Midwest by 
a score of 112–99. Althea Gwyn of the New York Stars led the East with 
19 points and 16 rebounds, while Chicago Hustle players Debra Waddy Rossow 
with 26 points and Rita Easterling with 19 points led the Midwest. Easterling, 
who also grabbed 18 rebounds, was named the game's most valuable player.[5] 
Behind 36 points by Paula Mayo, the Houston Angels defeated the Iowa Cornets 
on May 2, 1979, to take the league's first championship, 111–104 in the 
final game of a best three-out-of-five competition.[6] The league made 
it through its first season with all eight teams in operation, though the 
Dayton Rockettes had been taken over by the league in February 1979 and 
was to be relocated to either Indianapolis or Los Angeles. New franchises 
had been awarded to Dallas, New Orleans, San Francisco and St. Louis, Missouri, 
while applications were received for potential franchises from Baltimore, 
Boston, Los Angeles, Philadelphia and Washington, D.C.[7] On April 9, 1980, 
despite Iowa's league-leading scorer Molly Bolin's 36 point, the New York 
Stars held on to win game four of the finals 125–114, behind 27 points 
by Pearl Moore and 22 by Janice Thomas. Stars coach Dean Meminger called 
the game the "culmination of a year of hard work".[8] In what proved to 
be a harbinger of things to come, however, the Stars asked to go on a two-year 
hiatus not long after winning the title.[9] In a game scheduled in Chicago 
on March 21, 1981, players of the Minnesota Fillies, one of only three 
teams to play in all three seasons that the league was in existence, walked 
off the court before the starting lineups were announced in a game against 
the Chicago Hustle in a protest over unpaid salaries. Referees and team 
coach Terry Kunze tried to cajole the players back onto the court to play 
their game, but were unsuccessful. The team, which had been averaging 1,000 
to 1,500 in attendance per game were suspended from the WPBL by commissioner 
Sherwin Fisher, who called the walkout as "very detrimental to the league".[10] 
The Nebraska Wranglers won the league's 1980–81 title, defeating the Dallas 
Diamonds three games to two. In the fifth and final game, Rosie Walker 
led the victors with 39 points, while the Wranglers' defense held Nancy 
Lieberman of Dallas to 12 points, less than half of her season average.[11] 
Bill Byrne had founded the league hoping that the 1980 Summer Olympics 
would showcase the game's stars and bring media and public attention to 
women's basketball, but the United States-led boycott of the Moscow games 
only added to the league's misfortunes.[12] By the fall of 1981, the league 
was showing what The New York Times described as "feeble flickers of life." 
That November, commissioner Dave Almstead announced the league had disbanded, 
having generated $14 million in losses in its three years on the court. 
Almstead, who had succeeded Fisher as league commissioner in May 1981, 
announced the league's shutdown after trying unsuccessfully to contact 
the surviving eight teams' investors and team owners. Fischer, owner of 
the Chicago Hustle, insisted that he would field a team that would go barnstorming 
if the league went out of existence, and thought that teams would be fielded 
for a fourth season by Chicago, Nebraska and New Orleans. Some of the players 
were able to play professionally again in the 1984 Women's American Basketball 
Association.[9] Eastern Division Midwest Division Semifinals Finals Eastern 
Division Midwest Division Western Division Quarterfinals Semifinals Finals 
