The Women's Baseball World Series is a now defunct international tournament 
in which originally national women's baseball teams from around the world 
competed before being overtaken by the Women's Baseball World Cup in 2004. 
It was sanctioned by the International Baseball Federation. Competitive 
international women’s baseball began when Japan sent a nationally selected 
squad, sponsored by a sports drink company named Team Energen, to Florida 
to participate in the North American Women's Baseball League’s 1999 South 
Florida Diamond Classic. At the 1999 South Florida Diamond Classic showed 
that Team Energen they could play at the top level of women’s baseball 
and after a meeting between Japanese and American officials following the 
tournament, plans were initiated for a contest between a national women’s 
baseball team from the United States and Team Energen in Tokyo. In May 
2000, a United States national women's baseball team flew to Tokyo and 
played the first competitive international women's baseball game on May 
1 in the Seibu Dome against a nationally selected Team Energen squad. The 
Japanese team defeated the US team in front of 3,000 enthusiastic fans. 
Organisers were impressed at the success of the game and decided to organise 
an annual competition called the Women's World Series to be held in the 
United States or Canada in the summer of 2001. After discussions over the 
summer with women’s baseball program organisers within the AWBF, Baseball 
Ontario, the Baseball Victoria (Australia) and the Baseball Federation 
of Japan plans were developed for the 2001 Women's World Series in Toronto. 
The Toronto Blue Jays agreed that several games including the championship 
game of the 2001 Women’s World Series would be played in the Toronto SkyDome. 
This proved to be an irresistible venue for attracting Japanese and Australian 
teams to North America. Australia selected their national women's team 
from a tryout process woven into their women's first Australian women's 
national baseball championship. The Australian Baseball Federation selected 
and trained the team which entered the 2001 Women's World Series. Baseball 
Canada also selected and trained a women's national team in 2001. Canada 
dropped out of international competitions after a disappointing fourth-place 
finish and did not resume play until the 2004 Women's World Series in Uozu 
City, Japan. The American Women’s Baseball Federation (AWBF) with the help 
of the Roy Hobbs Baseball organization selected and organized the 2001 
United States team through tryouts held in several areas of the country. 
A team ranging in ages from 15-41 represented the United States well eventually 
winning the inaugural 2001 Women’s World Series. The 2002 Women's World 
Series was played in St. Petersburg, Florida with Japan, Australia and 
the United States entering teams. In the Gold Medal game played at Tropicana 
Field following a Major League Baseball game Australia defeated Japan 7-4. 
The 2003 Women’s World Series was hosted by Australia and was played August 
25–30 on the Gold Coast in Queensland at the Australian Baseball Federation 
national training site, Palm Meadows Baseball Complex. Japan was to host 
the 2003 event originally, but the SARS virus closed that venue in June 
2003. Teams from the United States, Australia and Japan accepted. Japan 
won the 2003 Women’s World Series defeating Australia 4-2. Following the 
2003 Women’s World Series representatives from the three countries met 
to discuss whether the 2004 Women’s World Series would be rescheduled because 
of the newly sanctioned IBAF 2004 Women's Baseball World Cup. The three 
country representatives and the IBAF agreed to reschedule the event for 
July 16–23, 2004 as to honour commitments to the World Cup. Eight teams 
played in the 2004 Women's World Series. This enormously successful event 
witnessed new teams from Korea, India, Hong Kong and Chinese Taipei (Taiwan). 
In the final, Japan defeated the USA 14-4 in front of almost 10,000 spectators.[1] 
In 2005 and 2006, the World Series was a North American competition held 
in the Disney's Wide World of Sports Complex open to any women's teams, 
as it was overshadowed by the now more successful and internationally recognised 
