Woodbridge is a historic neighborhood of primarily Victorian homes located 
in Detroit, Michigan. The district was listed on the National Register 
of Historic Places in 1980, with later boundary increases in 1997 and 2008.[1] 
In addition to its historic value, Woodbridge is also notable for being 
an intact neighborhood of turn-of-the-century homes within walking or biking 
distance of Detroit's Downtown, Midtown, New Center, and Corktown neighborhoods. 
The district as recognized by the National Register of Historic Places 
was originally bounded by Trumbull Street, Calumet Street, Gibson Street, 
Grand River Avenue, Rosa Parks Boulevard, West Warren Avenue, Wabash Street, 
Railroad Tracks, and the Edsel Ford Freeway. The boundaries of the District 
were increased twice: in 1997, 4304-14 Trumbull Street (private residences) 
and 3800 Grand River Avenue were added to the district, and in 2008 the 
southeast corner of Trumbull Street and Warren Avenue (Saint Dominic Roman 
Catholic Church) was added. Most structures in the district are located 
on north-south streets. The irregularly-shaped district includes structure 
at 3800 Grand River Avenue (between Avery Street and Commonwealth Street), 
and structures within the following boundaries: Woodbridge is an intact 
neighborhood of architecturally significant buildings and has had an important 
effect on the history of Detroit. The neighborhood, dating to the Victorian 
era, has largely escaped the redevelopment efforts that have obliterated 
many of Detroit's other historic areas. It is named for William Woodbridge, 
governor of Michigan in 1840–1, who owned a large farm on which much of 
the neighborhood was subsequently built.[2] Most of the structures within 
the neighborhood were built after 1870, beginning with modest cottages. 
Larger structures were built later, including the James Scripps house (now 
demolished and turned into a city park), built in 1879. The Eighth Precinct 
Police Station, built in 1901, was architecturally designed to blend in 
with the lavish upper-class homes in the neighborhood.[2] As the automotive 
industry boomed, there was an increased demand for housing in the city 
of Detroit, and new buildings and apartment houses were constructed behind 
and between the existing homes in the neighborhood. During World War II, 
owners rented rooms and divided homes into apartments to house defense 
industry workers.[2] After the war, residents began leaving the Woodbridge 
neighborhood for the suburbs. New residents to Woodbridge were less affluent. 
In the 1960s, the city cleared areas adjacent to the neighborhood to support 
revitalization.[2] The residents of Woodbridge organized a Citizen's District 
Council to preserve the neighborhood, and successfully managed to stabilize 
and preserve many of the remaining homes. Recent activity has shifted perception 
of Woodbridge from that of an up-and-coming neighborhood to a hotbed of 
urban revitalization, with the few properties that come up for sale typically 
subject to bidding wars.[2][3] Notable structures within the Woodbridge 
neighborhood include: Detroit Public Schools operates public schools. Frederick 
Douglass Academy for Young Men is located in Woodbridge.[7] Previous residents 
