Woodstock is a city in Southwestern Ontario, Canada. The city has a population 
of 37,754 according to the 2011 Canadian census. Woodstock is the seat 
of Oxford County, at the head of the non-navigable Thames River, approximately 
128 km from Toronto, and 43 km from London, Ontario. The city is known 
as the Dairy Capital of Canada and promotes itself as "The Friendly City". 
Woodstock was first settled by European-colonists and United Empire Loyalists 
in 1800, starting with Zacharias Burtch and Levi Luddington,[4] and was 
incorporated as a town in 1851. Since then, Woodstock has maintained steady 
growth, and is now one of the largest cities in Southwestern Ontario. As 
a small historic city, Woodstock is one of the few cities in Ontario to 
still have all of its original administration buildings. The city has developed 
a strong economic focus towards manufacturing and tourism. It is also a 
market city for the surrounding agricultural industry. Woodstock is home 
to a campus of Fanshawe College. The city plays host to a number of cultural 
and artistic exhibits, including the Woodstock Museum, a national historic 
site. Woodstock's summer festivals contribute to its tourism industry; 
however, its economic activity is centred on the manufacturing centre, 
the city being home to a large number of auto-manufacturing factories. 
The city's west end has exceptionally well-preserved Victorian streetscapes; 
most notable of these streets is Vansittart Avenue, named after Admiral 
Henry Vansittart, one of the city's first settlers. Woodstock has a large 
community centre with a rink capable of accommodating 2,500 spectators 
for hockey games. The centre also has a large banquet hall and atrium which 
play host to a large number of social gatherings for the community.[5] 
The community was first settled in 1800 after it was determined by Sir 
John Graves Simcoe, governor of what was then known as Upper Canada, that 
the area would make a good townsite. The early settlers were generally 
American immigrants from New York state, such as Levi Burtch and Dr. Levi 
Hoyt Perry. Increased immigration from Great Britain followed in the 1820s 
and 1830s, including the half pay officers Henry Vansittart and Andrew 
Drew. Admiral Vansittart commissioned Col. Andrew Drew to build a church 
(Old St. Paul's) in a new area of Oxford that was known as the "Town Plot". 
The men would later quarrel, which would lead to the construction of a 
second church known as "New St. Paul's". In 1836 there were 200 people 
living in Woodstock, and by 1844 the population had grown to almost 1,000 
inhabitants and nearly 200 homes. Woodstock was incorporated as a town 
in 1851 and had its first town meeting in the Royal Pavilion Hotel. This 
year also saw the start of the Town Hall and local government. In 1901, 
Woodstock, with a population of nearly 9,000, petitioned the provincial 
legislature for city status and the "Town of Woodstock" was incorporated 
into the "City of Woodstock". From 1900 to 1920, an electric train ran 
down the streets of Woodstock; as well, after 1920, bricks were used to 
pave the main street of Woodstock. The bricks were later removed in the 
1940s. Sir Oliver Mowat, a native of Kingston, Ontario, served as member 
of the provincial parliament for the region from 1872 to 1896, during which 
time he was also premier of the province of Ontario. The 1890 Trial began 
with the arrest of Reginald Birchall in Niagara Falls, Ontario. Birchall 
was held at the Woodstock jail for seven months until his murder trial 
began in September of that year. The trial took place at the Woodstock 
Town Hall as the Court House was under construction at the time. The trial 
received worldwide media coverage, with reporters camped out across from 
the Town Hall in the Oxford Hotel. On August 7, 1979, the Woodstock area 
was hit by three tornadoes, two of which registered at least F4 on the 
Fujita Scale.[6] On the west side of town along Ingersoll Road, a Dominion 
Food Store was heavily damaged while the tornadoes skipped over every other 
home and business. Dickson's Florist was wiped out and the Fry home was 
moved on its foundation. Father Grondziel of the new Polish Roman Catholic 
Church, next to the Dominion Food Store, had just stepped into the washroom 
when one of the tornadoes passed by and took off the roof of the church 
and everything in the room he had just been in. No one on the street was 
injured but the cleanup took many weeks. On the south side, the buildings 
of the Maranatha Christian Reformed Church and the John Knox Christian 
School were destroyed, and the only fatality occurred when a vehicle on 
Highway 401 was blown off the road and the lone occupant killed. The city 
government, Woodstock City Council, consists of four city councilors, two 
city and county councilors, and the mayor who serves as the Head of Council. 
Trevor Birtch defeated one term incumbent Pat Sobeski in the municipal 
election of 2014.[9] Woodstock is the seat of Oxford County, with the recently 
constructed County Administration Building located across from City Hall 
in the area of Dundas and Reeve Streets. The city is governed by both the 
city and Oxford county councils, each with specific "spheres of jurisdiction".[10] 
During 2005 economic development services, then exclusive to the county, 
was negotiated away from them by former mayor Michael Harding. For provincial 
and federal elections, Woodstock is included in the riding of Oxford. Currently, 
the MP of Oxford is Dave MacKenzie (Conservative), and the MPP is Ernie 
Hardeman (Progressive Conservative). Woodstock General Hospital was located 
on Riddell Street in central Woodstock for over a century. In the fall 
of 2011, the WGH moved to a new location in a newly developing area in 
the southern end of Woodstock. Through millions of dollars in local private 
donations, backed by government grants, the city now has a new state-of-the-art 
medical facility. The new hospital is close to highway 401, the busiest 
highway in North America,[11] and has many upgrades including a helipad 
and an MRI/cancer centre. It caters to a population of about 55000 people. 
It has a workforce of nearly 600 people and 270 volunteers. Woodstock was 
the former home of the Oxford Regional Centre. Opened in 1906 as the Hospital 
for Epileptics, it was later renamed the Ontario Hospital in 1919. Originally 
on the west side of Highway 59, the hospital then expanded on the east 
side in the 1950s and transformed into a house for mentally disabled individuals. 
At its peak, the centre employed 1500 people. It closed its doors in 1996, 
and since then all buildings have been demolished except for part of the 
powerhouse, now the Sally Creek Bistro, and the mess hall which has been 
converted into a community centre for Sally Creek. As well a carved insert 
with the words "Ontario Hospital" remains in the stone wall on the west 
side of Highway 59 north of Fairway Road. A polished black granite memorial 
to the institution sits at Dr. J. J. Williams Park on Lakeview Drive east 
of Highway 59. Woodstock has two sister cities: Sylvania, Ohio, United 
States of America, and Pesche, Italy.[12] The Woodstock Art Gallery is 
located at 449 Dundas Street in the renovated John White Building. The 
Art Gallery, which originally started in the basement of the Woodstock 
Public Library, proudly showcases the work of Florence Carlyle. Theatre 
Woodstock houses plays year-round in the former market building across 
from the museum. Downtown Woodstock stretches from Vansittart Avenue to 
Huron Street on Dundas Street, the city's main street. It houses the city's 
banks, administration buildings, independent retailers and several restaurants. 
The majority of buildings are a century old. Downtown promotes itself through 
its Business Improvement Area members as a place to shop, work, play and 
dine. Although there are a few vacancies in the city centre, the downtown 
is full of beautiful historic buildings and several unique retail outlets.[citation 
needed][citation needed]In the 1990s the city undertook an extensive makeover 
of the main street, adding many gardens and cobbled sidewalks. Every summer 
the main street is shut down for the city's "Summer Streetfest" celebrations, 
a mix of retail sales and various entertainment. The Old Town Hall, now 
the Woodstock Museum,NHS was built in 1853 and modelled architecturally 
on the Town Hall in Woodstock, England. Designed by Peter Craib, the Town 
Hall was built by David White, W.P. Dixon and William McKay. It is majestic 
for its size, with semi-circular windows and a domed cupola. It served 
as the first market, first fire hall, community hall, and lockup for the 
town, and was the location of the world-famous Birchall-Benwell murder 
trial in 1890. Canada's first elected female mayor, Bernadette Smith, served 
here from 1952-1965, and the original town council chamber used from 1871 
to 1968 inside has been restored. (Start, Turner, Gardhouse, Bennett, Historic 
Buildings of Woostock, Ontario) The Woodstock Market was built in 1895 
by the architect W.B. Ford, using 140,000 feet of lumber, 1 1/4 tons of 
nails, and 1 1/4 miles of putty on a site previously occupied by wooden 
market sheds. The low roof and wide canopies are typical of market construction 
in this period, and interesting features included the twin towers, the 
drinking fountain at the front door, and the use of stone in the trim. 
(Start, Turner, Gardhouse, Bennett, Historic Public Buildings of Woodstock, 
Ontario) The old jail was built in 1854 by Hamilton architects Clark and 
Murray in the Italianate style, with many arches, and an octagonal 2 1/2 
storey tower; in this case, the architecture camouflages the function of 
the institution. Four men and one woman were hanged in the yard, including 
the infamous Birchall, who posing as "Lord Somerset" duped the entire town 
and murdered his gentlemen farmer apprentice; this was Victorian Canada's 
most sensational murder case. The death mask at the entrance is of blind 
Thomas Cook, hanged in 1862 for murdering his wife; his head rolled into 
the crowd, and afterwards public hangings were discontinued. The building 
was recently restored by Carlos Ventin of The Ventin Group architects of 
Simcoe, after a decade of lobbying by the "Save the Jail" Committee, with 
spectacular results, and is now occupied by Oxford County Public Health.(Start, 
Turner, Gardhouse,Bennett, Historic Public Buildings of Woodstock, Ontario) 
The Woodstock Public Library was built in 1909 by Chadwick and Beckett 
of Toronto on a Carnegie library grant, and it is considered one of the 
most attractive Carnegie libraries in Ontario. It is in classical revival 
style, with a graceful entrance, bi-chromatic brickwork, and well-balanced 
windows; the rotunda inside is beautifully proportioned and dramatic. The 
library traces its history back to a reading society formed in 1835 with 
Rev. William Bettridge of Old St. Paul's Church as president, and possesses 
the only complete set of minute books in the province dating back to 1835. 
Start, Turner, Gardhouse, Bennett, Historic Public Buildings of Woodstock, 
Ontario Built in 1892 to replace a Regency predecessor of 1839, the Courthouse 
is a massive building of sandstone in the Richardsonian Romanesque style, 
with a complex roof line. The first architect was dismissed in 1890 after 
the walls were found to be faulty, and replaced by Cuthbertson of Woodstock 
and Fowler of Toronto. Monkey heads are hidden among the capitals of the 
red marble pillars at the two front entrances, and the monkey at the peak 
is said to have been carved by the contractor to represent the county council 
after a dispute over payment. The current City Hall was originally built 
in 1901 as a post office during the term of Alexander McClenaghan, postmaster 
for thirty years. Bourgue DesRivieres of Ottawa were the architects and 
William Hall Burns, a prominent Ottawa sculptor of the Library of Parliament, 
was commissioned to do the exterior stone carving. Built of warm sandstone, 
with decorative trim in the gables and a bold corner tower with four clocks, 
it was converted to municipal offices in 1968. Start, Turner, Gardhouse,Bennett, 
Historic Public Buildings of Woodstock, Ontario The Perry Street firehall 
was built in 1899 at a cost of $7,500 to house the horse-drawn wagons. 
On Saturday evenings, people would gather to see the horses rush out of 
their stalls at the sound of the regular 9 o'clock bell, race around the 
building and back themselves into the shafts ready to be harnessed by firefighters 
as they slid down the pole from their upstairs quarters. The firehall features 
a square tower with detailed brickwork at the top, and a miniature tower 
to the right. The tower bell used to ring for fires, curfews, and lost 
children, and is now mounted in Southside Park. (Start, Turner, Gardhouse, 
Bennett, Historic Public Buildings of Woodstock, Ontario) The old Armouries 
was erected in 1904 by Nagle and Mills of Ingersoll as the home of the 
Oxford Rifles until 1954. The crenelated towers give it an appearance of 
heavy fortification, and its architecture reveals function through its 
exterior form, making interesting use of stone and brick. In 1971, after 
being declared surplus to Department of National Defense needs, it was 
transformed into offices for the Oxford County Board of Education, at which 
times its two wrought-iron spiral staircases (valued at $3000) were sold 
at public auction for $250 apiece. A stone cairn made with stones from 
the beach of Dieppe, where members of the Battalion participated in The 
Battle of Dieppe in August 1942, accounts the history of the Oxford Rifles. 
The Grand Trunk Railway owned and operated the Woodstock trains in 1914. 
They would later go bankrupt and be bought out by CN. Via now resides in 
the heritage building once occupied by Grand Trunk. This fountain sits 
in front of The Woodstock Museum or Old Town Hall. The fountain was erected 
in 1916 in honour of Andrew Pattulo, who was head of the Sentinel-Review 
newspaper in the early twentieth century. The Old Registry Office, now 
housing Oxford County Social Services, was constructed in 1876 to replace 
an earlier building on the County Square's opposite front corner, and served 
as a registry office until 1952. Italianate in style like the old jail, 
it is highlighted by semi-circular masonry over the windows carried out 
in the arch over the door. Its walls are two feet thick and its roof is 
said to be filled with sand, making the structure fireproof, and conforming 
to design plans common to registry offices of that era in Ontario. Start, 
Turner, Gardhouse, Bennett, Historic Public Buildings of Woodstock, Ontario 
Plaques: The first Registry office built in Oxford County was located west 
of here at the corner of Hunter and Light Streets, Woodstock, 1847. This 
building, the second Registry Office, was constructed in 1876 and remained 
in use until 1952. Five registrars of deeds served Oxford in their private 
homes and in these offices: Capt. Thomas Horner (1800–1834), James Ingersoll 
(1834–1886), George R. Pattullo (1186–1922), Wallace L. MacWhinnie (1922–1950), 
and Ross V. Tuck (1950–1969). The Oxford Hotel, located across from Market 
Square and the Town Hall in Woodstock, was built in 1880 as "The O’Neill 
House". It saw guests such as Oscar Wilde and Reginald Birchall, and later 
had a double purpose – it was the meeting spot for media in Birchall's 
trial. In 1895, the hotel saw a new owner, who named it "Oxford" and it 
would change hands twice more in the twentieth century. The Oxford Hotel 
also booked some interesting acts. In 1924, the "Human Fly", who was then 
all the rage across Canada and the United States, walked across the walls 
of Oxford's Hotel. (SR, July 21, 1924) The Hotel sits empty now and is 
available for purchase. There is a historical plaque on the building, recognizing 
its contributions to local history. 735 Rathbourne Ave. Built in 1833. 
Drew divided the eastern section of the town into town lots and formed 
the nucleus of this community. A plaque for Captain Andrew Drew, R.N., 
1792-1878. Co-founder of Woodstock with Andrew Vansittart. He led the loyalist 
forces, which destroyed the American steamer Caroline during the 1837 Rebellion. 
North of Park Row, west of Mill St. A movement to build a church for black 
people resulted in its construction in 1888. The church closed in 1985 
when it was sold for a house. 419 Vincent St. Neo-classical style house 
built in 1849. The first owner, Hugh Richardson, was the presiding judge 
at the Louis Riel trial in 1885. Richardson was also the first reeve of 
Woodstock. An Italianate-style home built in 1878. There is a lamp post 
from the Vansittart farm on the property. A plaque for James Hay, a well-known 
industrialist born in Woodstock, who was one of the founders of the Board 
of Trade in 1878, elected to Town Council in 1880 and Mayor between 1893 
and 1894. 130 Finkle St. It is the oldest house in Woodstock, built in 
1819 by Dr. Perry, the first doctor and teacher in Woodstock. 210 Vansittart 
Ave. The home was built in 1895 by Thomas L. Wilson, inventor of the first 
commercial calcium-carbide process for the manufacturer of acetylene gas. 
It was the residence of the Sisters of St. Joseph's until 1975. The campus 
is located at the south end of the city, offering a variety of full- and 
part-time programs. Fanshawe has applied for a permit to add onto their 
campus. The addition would double the size of the current campus and allow 
the institution to offer a much wider selection of programs. - Thames Valley 
District School Board (Anglophone, Public) - London District Catholic School 
Board (Anglophone, Catholic) - Conseil scolaire catholique Providence (Francophone, 
Catholic) Woodstock has several parks and gardens. Most notable is Southside 
Park, which has a playground, baseball diamonds, public washrooms, soccer 
fields, gardens, and a new Skatepark. It also has a large pond, and many 
walking trails. Tip O'Neill Field at Southside Park is home for the Woodstock 
Rangers OBA Junior baseball team. At the North End of the city is Roth 
Park and the Gordon Pittock Conservation Area, which stretch along the 
shores Gordon Pittock Reservoir, an artificial lake created by the construction 
of the Pittock Dam. This park contains a playground and several kilometers 
of walking, running, and biking trails. The Woodstock Dragon Boat Club 
also uses the Gordon Pittock Reservoir as their home. They are a growing 
dragon boat community consisting of both adult and junior teams. Woodstock 
has two ice rinks, two at the Community Complex at the south end of the 
city, and one at the fairgrounds in the central region. Southwood Arena 
at the Community Complex is home for the Woodstock Navy-Vets OHA Junior 
hockey team. Woodstock also has a roller derby team. The Woodstock Warriors. 
Woodstock roller derby was founded in 2011. The Woodstock Soccer Club has 
built an indoor and outdoor soccer park in the northwestern corner of the 
city, at the former site of the Oxford Regional Centre. The city has two 
indoor swimming pools, Southside Aquatic Centre, and the YMCA. With one 
outdoor pool, the Lions Pool. The city's fine Craigowan (Oxford) Golf Club, 
a private facility, dates from 1909, on a different site from that used 
by the current course. It has hosted provincial championships, and in 2014 
staged the Canadian Women's Amateur Championship. Oxford Road 59 N. 28.5 
ha (70.5 acres) of naturalized area outside of city limits. Part of the 
Upper Thame River Conservation Authority. Huron St. 10 ha (25 acres) for 
passive recreations and fishing. Part of the Upper Thames River Conversation 
Authority. Pavey St. 3 ha (8 acres) of parkland. Butler St. This park, 
with an area of 4.5 ha (11 acres), was named after the former operators 
of a wood and coal business and later an ice factory. It is located on 
the former sit of McIntosh Mill Pond. 725138 Pittock Park Rd. Passive recreation 
and fishing. Hunting is restricted. Part of the Upper Thames River Conservation 
Authority. Construction was started on the dam in 1964 and officially completed 
in 1967. The cost of the dam and land base at that time was close to $6 
million. Present annual maintenance costs are about $40,000.[13] The Pittock 
Dam is designed for both flood control and flow augmentation purposes. 
It is designed to benefit water quality downstream during dry summer conditions 
and provide year round flood control capability to protect downstream communities. 
The Woodstock Airport is located 2.5 nautical miles (4.6 km) west of Woodstock. 
In June 2005, Toyota announced plans to build a new, $CAD1.1 billion automobile 
assembly plant in Woodstock on a 1,000-acre (4 km2) undeveloped site in 
the city's northeast end. The plant was expected to employ 2000 people 
and begin full production of the Toyota RAV4 SUV in November 2008, at the 
rate of 150,000 a year. However, because of slowing car sales and bleeding 
market share to South Korean marques, Toyota cut production by 50% to 75,000 
a year and reduced the work force 40% to 1200 people. The other 800 workers 
are expected to be recalled when (if ever) car sales increase. It was the 
first new auto assembly plant to be built in Canada in two decades. In 
January 2010 the second shift was added and production increased to 150 
000 units per year. In 2012 they began production of the all electric RAV4 
EV in conjunction with Tesla motors. In 2013 production of the RAV4 and 
RAV4 EV will increase to 200 000 units per year combined and an additional 
400 workers well be added. This will bring the total work force at the 
Woodstock facility to 2400. Early in March 2006, Hino Motors, a Toyota 
Motor Co. subsidiary, announced that it will be the first Japanese truck 
manufacturer to build its vehicles in Canada with a new Woodstock plant 
slated to begin production in April 2006, in the former General Seating 
plant in the Pattullo Ridge Business Park near Highway 401 and Highway 
59. The $3 million, 120,000 square foot (11,000 m2) plant will employ 45 
and assemble 2,000 trucks a year when it begins production.[14] In late 
November 2008 the Hino Motors automotive plant was completed.[15] Woodstock 
is also home to industries: Woodstock Transit provides bus service on weekdays 
and Saturdays.[16] For intercity travel Via Rail operates a train station 
in the city, offering Quebec City-Windsor corridor service to Toronto, 
Windsor, and points in between.[17] Highway 401 runs along the southern 
edge of the city, and its junction with Highway 403 is located in the extreme 
south-east. Woodstock is centred on the intersection of the former Highway 
59 and Highway 2, now Oxford Road 59 and Oxford Road 2. The nearest airport 
with scheduled flights is London International Airport, 40 km to the west. 
The nearest major airport is Toronto Pearson International Airport, 128 km 
to the east.[18] Woodstock has one daily newspaper owned by Postmedia Network, 
the Woodstock Sentinel-Review. There are three licensed FM radio stations: 
There is one licensed over-the-air television station in Woodstock: Woodstock 
is also served by media from nearby London, Ontario. Jeon Somi, Member 
of Korean band I.O.I Art Williams. Bits & Pieces: A Montage of Woodstock, 
Ontario in Text and Pictures. Erin, Ontario: Boston Mills, 1967, 1990. 
