WOR (710 kHz) is a 50,000 Watt class A clear-channel, AM station located 
in New York, New York. The station is owned by iHeartMedia. The station 
airs a mix of local and syndicated Talk radio shows, primarily from co-owned 
Premiere Networks, including The Rush Limbaugh Show, The Sean Hannity Show, 
and Coast to Coast AM; all three of these programs previously aired on 
WABC, WOR's competitor, before iHeartMedia purchased WOR and moved them 
there. WOR serves as the flagship station for the New York Mets and Rutgers 
University's football and men's basketball teams. WOR is one of the oldest 
radio stations in New York, with a three-letter call sign indicating the 
station dates from the 1920s. The station broadcasts from studios in the 
Tribeca district of Manhattan at the former AT&T Building, with its transmitter 
in Rutherford, New Jersey. WOR began broadcasting on February 22, 1922, 
using a 500-watt transmitter on 360 meters (833 kc.) from Bamberger's Department 
store in Newark, New Jersey. The station's first broadcast was made with 
a home made microphone which was a megaphone attached to a telephone transmitter, 
while Al Jolson's "April Showers" was played.[2] Bamberger's desire to 
sell radio sets explains why the department store put the station on the 
air. The WOR call sign was reissued from the U.S. maritime radio service. 
The call letters have no meaning, being sequentially assigned. They had 
previously been authorized for use by the ship SS California, owned by 
the Orient Lines. The station initially operated limited hours, sharing 
time with two other stations, WDT and WJY, which also operated on 833 kc. 
WOR changed frequency to 740 kc. in June 1923 and shared time with WJY 
until July 1926, when WJY signed off for good and WOR received full use 
of the frequency. In December 1924, WOR acquired a studio in Manhattan, 
to originate many of its programs, so that stars of the day based in New 
York would have better access to the station. On June 17, 1927, as a result 
of General Order 40, WOR moved to 710 kilocycles, the channel it currently 
occupies. Unlike most stations of that era, it was not required to change 
its dial position due to the North American Regional Broadcasting Agreement. 
Later in 1926, WOR moved from its original New York City studio on the 
9th floor of Chickering Hall at 27 West 57th Street to 1440 Broadway, two 
blocks from Times Square. WOR was first a charter member of the CBS Radio 
Network, being one of the 16 stations that aired the first CBS network 
program on September 18, 1927.[3] In partnership with Chicago radio station 
WGN and Cincinnati radio station WLW, WOR formed the Mutual Broadcasting 
System in 1934 and became its New York flagship station. Mutual was one 
of the "Big Four" national radio networks in the United States during the 
1930s–1980s. In 1941, the station changed its city of license from Newark 
to New York City. However, for all intents and purposes it had been a New 
York City station since its early days, and had actually moved its studios 
across the Hudson two years after it signed on. In 1957, WOR ended its 
relationship with Mutual and became an independent station, with Mutual's 
New York outlet becaming WAAT in Newark (today WNYM Hackensack NJ). But 
WOR continued to carry Mutual's "Top of the News" with Fulton Lewis for 
15 minutes each evening, Monday to Friday at 7:00 p.m. for several more 
years. For a few years in the late-1950s, WOR aired selected St. Louis 
Cardinals baseball games sponsored by Budweiser due to the departures of 
the Dodgers and Giants from New York to California. In 1948, WOR put an 
FM radio station on the air as WOR-FM. WOR had been experimenting with 
FM broadcasts as W2XWI from its Carteret, New Jersey transmitter site from 
1938. Today that station is 98.7 WEPN-FM. In 1949, WOR started a sister 
TV station, WOR-TV, on channel 9. This station became WWOR-TV after it 
and 710 WOR were sold to separate companies in 1987. From the 1930s to 
the early 1980s, WOR was described as a full-service station, featuring 
a mix of music, talk and news. There was an emphasis on news reports and 
talk programs, but music was played also, usually a blend of pop standards 
and adult contemporary tunes. WOR played several songs per hour weekday 
mornings from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. and again afternoons from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. 
WOR also featured music on Saturday and Sunday afternoons. In ratings reports, 
WOR was classified as a MOR/Talk station rather than a News/Talk station 
until 1984. From 1983 to about 1985, WOR gradually stopped playing music 
altogether, evolving into its current talk format. Past notable hosts were 
Ed and Pegeen Fitzgerald, Arlene Francis, Patricia McCann, Long John Nebel, 
Bernard Meltzer, Barry Farber, Jean Shepherd, Bob and Ray, Jack O'Brian, 
Bob Grant and Gene Klavan. From April 15, 1945, to March 21, 1963, newspaper 
columnist Dorothy Kilgallen and her husband Dick Kollmar (1910–1971) co-hosted 
a late morning show on WOR called Breakfast With Dorothy and Dick.[4] The 
station was known for its detailed, 15-minute news reports on the hour. 
Noted newsmen such as Henry Gladstone, Harry Hennessey, John Wingate, Lyle 
Vann, Peter Roberts, and Roger Skibenes were the backbone of the news department. 
WOR introduced live, on-air, helicopter traffic reports with pilot reporters 
"Fearless" Fred Feldman and later George Meade. Unfortunately, on January 
10, 1969, fill-in pilot/reporter Frank McDermott died when the WOR helicopter 
crashed into an apartment building in Astoria, Queens as he was broadcasting 
a traffic update. The building caught fire and McDermott's body was found 
nearby. WOR's most renowned program was its morning show Rambling with 
Gambling, which aired continuously from March 1925 to September 2000 across 
three generations of hosts: John B. Gambling, his son John A. Gambling, 
and his grandson John R. Gambling. After John R. Gambling's edition of 
the show was dropped, he moved to WABC, where he hosted a late-morning 
show until January 2008. He returned to WOR mornings in May 2008. Although 
never a favorite of young listeners, WOR was this group's radio station 
of record in the New York metropolitan area during bad winter weather. 
Students of all ages dialed up 710 AM on their radios as the Gamblings 
dutifully announced a comprehensive list of school closings for New York, 
New Jersey, and Connecticut, in strict alphabetical order. Currently, Gambling 
hosts middays on 970 WNYM, after retiring from WOR in December 2013. WOR's 
original transmitter location was in Carteret, NJ using two steel lattice 
towers and a steel cable as a third radiating element. The cable hung from 
a catenary connected to the top of each of the towers. This created a lopsided 
figure-8 pattern intended to cover both the NY and Philadelphia markets, 
making WOR the first 50,000 Watt directional station in the US. Over the 
years, construction affected WOR's signal strength and WOR sought a new 
location. Circa 1966, the FCC issued a construction permit for WOR's new 
and current location in Lyndhurst, NJ. The current location features three 
full half-wave (692 feet) guyed antennas in a triangular array. WOR is 
within one mile of both WLIB and WINS. Thus each WOR tower hosts AM detuning 
apparatus to prevent adverse distortion of WINS and WLIB radiation patterns. 
Built on hydraulic landfill, the site provides excellent ground conductivity 
for daytime groundwave radiation. At night, WOR can be heard over most 
of Europe and Africa. It shares Class A status on 710 kHz with KIRO (AM) 
in Seattle, KEEL in Shreveport, LA and CKLW Detroit/Windsor and operates 
24 hours per day. WOR must protect the radiation pattern of these stations 
since its transmitter in Lyndhurst, NJ was constructed circa 1968, well 
after these other 50,000 Watt stations began operations. WOR is the only 
New York City AM station to have retained its original three-letter call 
sign, the oldest continually used call letters in the New York City area. 
On April 30, 2005, WOR moved its offices and studios from 1440 Broadway 
at 40th Street in Midtown Manhattan where it had been based for 79 years 
to a new facility at 111 Broadway near Wall Street in the Financial District, 
Manhattan before moving to the Avenue of The Americas in Tribeca where 
it is currently headquartered. On August 13, 2012, it was announced that 
WOR was to be purchased by Clear Channel Communications (now iHeartMedia), 
pending FCC approval.[5] A local marketing agreement began on August 15, 
2012. On December 20, 2012, the day Clear Channel officially took ownership 
of the station, the Dr. Joy Browne Show, the Gov. David Paterson Show, 
and the Mike Huckabee Show were removed from the WOR program schedule.[6] 
On January 2, 2013, WOR added former WABC weekend host Mark Simone to its 
weekday morning line up.[7] WOR now offers ten hours of live and local 
programming on weekdays, with the rest of the day offering syndicated programs. 
Along with the change in programming came the slogan "New York's Only Live 
and Local News and Conversation." In late 2014, former WNBC sportscaster 
Len Berman and Tampa Bay Area radio host Todd Schnitt were hired as the 
station's morning hosts, after WOR cancelled the hot talk Elliot in the 
Morning Show, simulcast from iHeart Alternative Rock station WWDC (FM) 
in Washington, D.C.. On January 1, 2014, both the Rush Limbaugh and Sean 
Hannity shows were transferred from rival Talk Radio station 770 WABC, 
owned by Cumulus Media. Since Premiere Networks, owned by iHeartMedia, 
syndicates both popular shows, WOR wanted them to boost its ratings.[8] 
On November 4, 2013, WOR and the New York Mets announced the team's games 
will be broadcast on 710 AM, as well as advertised on all local Clear Channel 
radio stations, beginning with the 2014 baseball season.[9] The station 
also broadcasts "The WOR Sports Zone", hosted by Pete McCarthy which airs 
from immediately before and after Mets games. When the team is idle, McCarthy 
hosts a sports show weeknights from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. followed by syndicated 
family finances radio host Dave Ramsey. WOR was once the flagship station 
of the now-defunct WOR Radio Network. The network distributed nationally 
syndicated programming, all from the WOR studios at 111 Broadway in New 
York. Following the sale of WOR to Clear Channel Communications, what was 
left of the WOR Radio Network was folded into Premiere Networks, Clear 
Channel's syndication wing. Past notable WOR program hosts and newscasters 
included these personalities. 1 = Clear-channel stations with extended 
nighttime coverage. 2= Stations share time on the frequency. 3= Station 
is licensed to a community in their respective sub market (e.g. New Jersey), 
