The World Hockey Association (French: Association mondiale de hockey) was 
a professional ice hockey major league that operated in North America from 
1972 to 1979. It was the first major league to compete with the National 
Hockey League (NHL) since the collapse of the Western Hockey League (1952–74). 
Although the WHA was not the first league since that time to attempt to 
challenge the NHL's supremacy, it was by far the most successful in the 
modern era. The WHA tried to capitalize on the lack of hockey teams in 
a number of major American cities and mid-level Canadian cities, and also 
hoped to attract the best players by paying more than NHL owners would. 
The WHA successfully challenged the NHL's reserve clause, which bound players 
to their NHL teams even without a valid contract, allowing players in both 
leagues greater freedom of movement. Sixty-seven players jumped from the 
NHL to the WHA in the first year, led by star forward Bobby Hull, whose 
ten-year, $2.75 million contract was a record at the time. The WHA also 
took the initiative to sign European players. The WHA had an acrimonious 
relationship with the NHL, resulting in numerous legal battles, as well 
as competition for control of players and markets. In spite of this, merger 
talks began almost immediately, as the WHA was constantly unstable, with 
franchises occasionally relocating or folding in the middle of the season. 
NHL owners voted down a 1977 plan to merge six WHA teams (the Edmonton 
Oilers, New England Whalers, Quebec Nordiques, Cincinnati Stingers, Houston 
Aeros, and Winnipeg Jets) into the NHL before a 1979 merger was approved.[1] 
As a result, four teams – three Canadian and only one American – the Edmonton 
Oilers, New England Whalers, Quebec Nordiques, and Winnipeg Jets joined 
the NHL for the 1979–80 season, and the WHA ceased operations. Of these 
four teams, two of the Canadian teams -- the Nordiques and Jets -- along 
with the Whalers eventually moved south to American cities, with only the 
Oilers surviving in their original city with their original name. The final 
WHA game was played on May 20, 1979, as the Jets defeated the Oilers to 
win their third Avco World Trophy. The World Hockey Association was founded 
in 1971 by American promoters Dennis Murphy and Gary Davidson. The pair 
had previously been the founder and first president of the American Basketball 
Association, respectively.[2] They quickly recruited Bill Hunter, president 
of the junior Western Canada Hockey League.[3] Hunter and Murphy traveled 
across North America recruiting franchise owners, and by September 1971, 
had announced that the league would begin in 1972 with ten teams, each 
having paid $25,000 for their franchise.[4] The average NHL salary in 1972 
was $25,000, the lowest of the four major sports, while players were bound 
by the reserve clause, a clause in every player's contract that automatically 
extended a player's contract by one year when it expired, tying them to 
their team for the life of their career.[5] In October 1972, the WHA announced 
that it would not use the reserve clause, stating that "The reserve clause 
won't stand up to the scrutiny of ... players, players associations, the 
United States Congress, the public and the Supreme Court".[6] The WHA also 
promised much higher salaries than the NHL offered, and by the time the 
league began play, it had lured 67 former NHL players to its league, including 
Bernie Parent, Gerry Cheevers, Derek Sanderson, J. C. Tremblay and Ted 
Green.[7] The biggest name signed was former Chicago Black Hawks star Bobby 
Hull, who agreed to a 10-year, $2.7 million contract with the Winnipeg 
Jets, the largest in hockey history at the time, and one that lent the 
league instant credibility.[8] The NHL tried to block several of the defections. 
The Boston Bruins attempted to restrain Sanderson and Cheevers from joining 
the WHA, though a United States federal court refused to prohibit the signings. 
The Black Hawks were successful in having a restraining order filed against 
Hull and the Jets pending the outcome of legal action the Black Hawks were 
taking against the WHA. The new league was eager for the court action, 
intending to challenge the legality of the reserve clause.[9] In November 
1972, judge A. Leon Higginbotham Jr. of the United States District Court 
for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania placed an injunction against the 
NHL, preventing it from enforcing the reserve clause and freeing all players 
who had restraining orders against them, including Hull, to play with their 
WHA clubs. The decision effectively ended the NHL's monopoly on major league 
professional hockey talent.[10] In November 1971, twelve teams were formally 
announced. They included teams from cities without NHL teams such as the 
Miami Screaming Eagles, as well as teams in cities where the league's promoters 
believed there was room for more than one team, such as the Los Angeles 
Aces, Chicago Cougars, and New York Raiders. Two of the original twelve 
teams moved before the first season started: the Dayton Arrows became the 
Houston Aeros and the San Francisco Sharks became the Quebec Nordiques. 
The Los Angeles franchise then took the nickname Sharks to replace Aces. 
The Calgary Broncos and the Screaming Eagles folded outright, replaced 
by the Philadelphia Blazers and the Cleveland Crusaders. Although the league 
had many players under contract by June 1972, including a few NHL stars 
such as Bernie Parent, many of its players were career minor leaguers and 
college players. The new league was not considered much of a threat, until 
Bobby Hull, arguably the NHL's top forward at the time, jumped to the new 
league. Hull had not been thought to be seriously considering signing with 
the WHA even though he was in contentious salary negotiations with the 
Chicago Black Hawks, and when he told reporters that he would only move 
to the WHA "for a million dollars", it was both intended by Hull and taken 
by his audience to be a joke since a million dollars at that time was considered 
to be a ridiculous amount of money for a hockey player. Nevertheless, to 
everyone's surprise, the Winnipeg Jets offered Hull a five-year, one million 
dollar contract with a one million dollar signing bonus. Hull accepted 
the Jets' offer, sealing the deal in an elaborate signing ceremony at Portage 
and Main. Hull's move to the upstart league attracted a few other top stars 
such as Cheevers, Sanderson, and Tremblay. The WHA officially made its 
debut on October 11, 1972, in the Ottawa Civic Centre, when the Alberta 
Oilers defeated the Ottawa Nationals 7-4. Although the quality of hockey 
was predictably below that of the NHL, the WHA had indeed made stars out 
of many players that had little or no playing time in the NHL. The New 
England Whalers eventually won the WHA's inaugural championship, later 
renamed the Avco World Trophy when the Avco Financial Services Corporation 
became its main sponsor. However, the World Trophy had not yet been completed, 
and the Whalers skated their divisional championship trophy around the 
ice surface, much to the embarrassment of the WHA office. Right from the 
start, the league was plagued with problems. Many teams often found themselves 
in financial difficulty, folding or moving from one city to another, often 
in mid-season. Two of the original twelve teams, the Dayton Arrows and 
the San Francisco Sharks, relocated, citing arena troubles. These two franchises 
were moved to become the Houston Aeros and Quebec Nordiques, respectively. 
Other franchises, such as the Calgary Broncos and the Screaming Eagles, 
folded outright. The Philadelphia Blazers and the Cleveland Crusaders replaced 
the Screaming Eagles and the Broncos. The New York Raiders, initially intended 
to be the WHA's flagship team, suffered from numerous problems. While they 
planned to play in the brand new Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum, Nassau 
County did not consider the WHA a major league and wanted nothing to do 
with the Raiders. The County recruited William Shea, leader of New York 
City's successful lobbying campaign to get baseball's National League to 
expand following the 1957 departures of the Brooklyn Dodgers and New York 
Giants. Shea worked with the NHL to quickly award a franchise to Long Island, 
the New York Islanders, who effectively locked up the Coliseum for their 
own use. The Raiders were first forced to rent space at Madison Square 
Garden, where they were tenants to their major competitor, the New York 
Rangers. The situation rapidly became untenable, with an onerous lease 
and poor attendance, so the three original owners defaulted and the league 
ended up taking control of the team midway through the season. The Raiders 
were sold after that season and renamed the New York Golden Blades, but 
were forced to revert to a Sundays-only home schedule due to the high price 
of rent and scheduling conflicts with other events at Madison Square Garden. 
This, however, was not enough to save the team, and the league was forced 
to take over the franchise again 24 games into the season. Realizing that 
it could not hope to compete with both the Rangers and the Islanders, the 
WHA moved the Golden Blades to New Jersey soon after taking control. Renamed 
the Jersey Knights, they played at the Cherry Hill Arena which had a slope 
in the ice surface,[11] causing pucks to shoot upward from results of a 
pass or shot, as well as chain link fencing instead of Plexiglas surrounding 
the rink. The arena was also closely cramped, with players not having adequate 
changing and dressing facilities. In another instance, Harold Ballard, 
owner of the Toronto Maple Leafs, deliberately made the Toronto Toros' 
lease terms at Maple Leaf Gardens as onerous as possible after they moved 
from Ottawa. The Toros were owned by John F. Bassett, son of Canadian media 
mogul John Bassett. The older Bassett had formerly been part-owner of the 
Leafs with Ballard and Stafford Smythe before falling out with his two 
partners. At the time the Toros' lease at Maple Leaf Gardens, Ballard was 
serving a lengthy prison term for fraud and tax evasion and unable to intervene, 
however, by the time the Toros played their first game, Ballard had been 
paroled and had regained control of the Gardens. Much to Bassett's outrage, 
the arena was dim for the first game. Ballard also ordered the cushions 
from the home bench removed for Toros' games (he told an arena worker, 
"Let 'em buy their own cushions!"). It was obvious that Ballard was angered 
at the WHA being figuratively in his backyard, and took out his frustration 
with the renegade league on the Toros. These terms compelled Bassett to 
move the team to Birmingham.[12] Part of the financial trouble was also 
attributed to the high player salaries. For instance, the Philadelphia 
Blazers signed Derek Sanderson for $2.6 million, which surpassed that of 
Brazilian soccer star, Pelé, making him the highest-paid athlete in the 
world at the time.[13] Unfortunately, his play did not live up to the expectations 
of his salary, and between an early-season injury, intemperate remarks 
to the press, and Blazer financial troubles, Sanderson's contract was bought 
out before the end of the season. As well, big stars lacked supporting 
players and the quality of the on-ice product suffered. The WHA had won 
several key victories, including a court ruling which prevented the NHL 
from binding players to NHL teams via the reserve clause, and the signings 
of more NHL stars such as Gordie Howe, Andre Lacroix, Marc Tardif, and 
in later years, Frank Mahovlich and Paul Henderson. In 1974, to broaden 
a depleted talent pool, the WHA began employing European players – which 
the NHL had largely ignored up to that time – in serious numbers, including 
stars such as Swedish players Anders Hedberg and Ulf Nilsson and Slovak 
center Václav Nedomanský, who had just defected from Czechoslovakia. Winnipeg 
especially loaded up with Scandinavian players and became the class of 
the league, with Hedberg and Nilsson combining with Bobby Hull to form 
one of hockey's most formidable forward lines. Along with the mass import 
of European stars, the Vancouver franchise attempted unsuccessfully to 
lure Phil Esposito away from the NHL by offering a contract similar to 
that of Bobby Hull, with a million dollars upfront.[14] The 1972 Summit 
Series, which pitted Team Canada against the Soviets, did not permit WHA 
players, due to the decision of series organizer Alan Eagleson, an NHL 
agent who was influential in forming the Canadian team. Bobby Hull, one 
of the best WHA players, was ruled ineligible to play because of his defection 
from the NHL, despite being initially selected by coach Harry Sinden. Dennis 
Hull initially planned to boycott the event as well as a show of support 
for his older brother, but Bobby persuaded him to stay on Team Canada. 
Other WHA stars turned down included Gerry Cheevers, J.C. Tremblay and 
Derek Sanderson. Some NHL owners also threatened not to free their players 
to participate if WHA players were permitted. The WHA organized the 1974 
Summit Series against the Soviets, giving an opportunity for Hull and 46-year-old 
Gordie Howe to play for Canada against the Soviet team, which the Soviets 
won 4-1-3. In the 1976 Canada Cup, the NHL and NHLPA broadened the scope 
of the competition, inviting to the tournament a number of hockey countries 
and allowing each invited country to send the best possible team they could 
muster, so this time WHA players were permitted. WHA players played on 
four of the tournament's six teams. In December 1976 and January 1977, 
the Super Series '76-77 tournament took place, opposing the HC CSKA Moscow 
(Red Army) and WHA teams. The Red Army won the series 6-2. By 1976, it 
had become evident that many of the WHA's franchises were teetering on 
the verge of financial collapse, with stable teams few and far between, 
and that the (at one time) combined 32 teams of the NHL and WHA had badly 
strained the talent pool. In 1977, merger discussions with the National 
Hockey League were first initiated, where six of the eight WHA teams would 
move to the NHL, as Houston, Cincinnati, Winnipeg, New England, Quebec, 
and Edmonton applied for entry. After a lengthy debate, the NHL voted the 
proposal down as it was never popular among NHL team owners. Merger discussions 
resumed in 1978, but Houston was not part of the proposal this time, and 
as a result the Aeros elected to fold on July 6, 1978. During the final 
series of talks, Aeros owner Kenneth Schnitzer campaigned to the NHL that 
either his team be admitted as an expansion team independent of a merger, 
or he would attempt to purchase an existing club and relocate it to Houston. 
Neither came to fruition. Another idea had the Edmonton Oilers and the 
New England Whalers moving to the NHL, with the Winnipeg Jets following 
a year later, but this was also not accepted by the NHL. The final two 
seasons of the WHA saw the debut of many superstars, some of which became 
hockey legends in the NHL. They included Wayne Gretzky, Mark Messier, Mike 
Liut, and Mike Gartner. The Birmingham franchise alone would feature future 
NHLers Rick Vaive, Michel Goulet, Rob Ramage, Ken Linseman, Craig Hartsburg, 
Rod Langway, Mark Napier, Pat Riggin and Gaston Gingras.[15] However, by 
the end of the final season, only six teams remained. Facing financial 
difficulty and unable to meet payrolls, the WHA finally came to an agreement 
with the NHL in early 1979. Under the deal, four WHA clubs – the Edmonton 
Oilers, New England Whalers (renamed the Hartford Whalers), Quebec Nordiques 
and Winnipeg Jets – joined the NHL. The other two WHA teams, the Cincinnati 
Stingers and Birmingham Bulls, were paid $1.5 million apiece in compensation. 
The agreement was very tilted in the NHL's favour. The older league treated 
the new clubs' arrival as an expansion, not a merger, so the four WHA refugees 
thus had to pay a $6 million franchise fee. The NHL also refused to recognize 
any WHA records. While the new clubs were allowed to stock their rosters 
with an expansion draft, NHL teams were allowed to reclaim players who 
had jumped to the WHA.[16] The WHA was able to extract three key concessions. 
First, the WHA teams were allowed to protect two goaltenders and two skaters 
to keep their rosters from being completely stripped clean by the old-line 
NHL teams. Second, the NHL allowed all of the WHA's Canadian teams to be 
part of the deal. The NHL had originally only been willing to take the 
Oilers, Whalers and Jets, but the WHA insisted that the Nordiques be included 
as well. Third, although the NHL had insisted on treating the deal as an 
expansion, it agreed to freeze the expansion fee for each team at $6 million 
U.S. – a relatively inexpensive price considering that it was nominally 
the same fee paid by every other team that had joined the NHL in the 1970s 
(a decade of high inflation). By comparison, when the Atlanta Flames were 
sold and moved to Calgary just one year later, the price had soared to 
$16 million U.S. The deal came up for a vote at the NHL Board of Governors 
meeting in Key Largo, Florida on March 8. Despite the one-sided nature 
of the proposal, the final tally was 12-5, one vote short of passage, as 
a three-quarters majority was required to permit merger (13 teams out of 
17 would have represented 76.5% of the league).[17] The Boston Bruins, 
Los Angeles Kings, Montreal Canadiens, Toronto Maple Leafs and Vancouver 
Canucks all voted against the deal. The Bruins weren't pleased with having 
to share New England with the Whalers. Los Angeles and Vancouver feared 
losing home dates with NHL teams from the East. Montreal and Toronto weren't 
enamored at the prospect of having to split revenue from Hockey Night in 
Canada broadcasts six ways rather than three.[16] When a second vote was 
held in Chicago on March 22, however, Montreal and Vancouver changed their 
votes, allowing the deal to go forward. Vancouver was won over by the promise 
of a balanced schedule, with each team playing the others twice at home 
and twice on the road. The Canadiens' owners, Molson Breweries, were feeling 
the effects of a massive boycott that originated in Edmonton, Quebec City, 
and Winnipeg and spread across Canada.[16] With the boycott severely hurting 
Molson's sales, the brewer reached agreement with the owners of the three 
Canadian WHA teams to have Molson replace their competitors (and Nordiques 
owners) Carling O'Keefe as the exclusive supplier of beer to the Oilers' 
and Jets' arenas; it is probable that this concession was made in exchange 
for the Canadiens' vote. On the ice, the WHA teams had proven themselves 
to be the NHL's competitive equals, winning more games than they lost in 
interleague exhibition games.[18] The WHA had many lasting effects on NHL 
hockey. The NHL used to recruit virtually all its players from Canada, 
but following the success of the Jets' Hedberg and Nilsson scouts began 
looking overseas for the best players that Europe could offer. Teams such 
as the Whalers and Fighting Saints also offered excellent opportunities 
for young American players, and several U.S.-born or -raised NHL stars 
of the early 1980s (such as Mark Howe, Rod Langway, Dave Langevin, Robbie 
Ftorek, and Paul Holmgren) began their pro careers in the WHA. As a result, 
the NHL evolved into a truly cosmopolitan league during the 1980s. The 
WHA also ended the NHL policy of paying its players only a fraction of 
the league's profits and, combined with the abolition of the reserve clause, 
led to much higher player salaries. Many great stars began their careers 
in the WHA, including Mark Howe, Wayne Gretzky, Mike Gartner, Mike Liut, 
and Mark Messier. Messier was the last WHA veteran to play in the NHL; 
he opened his professional career with 52 games with the Indianapolis Racers 
and Cincinnati Stingers in 1978–79, and played his last NHL game on April 
3, 2004. The final active player and official in any on-ice capacity for 
the league was referee Don Koharski, who started as a linesman for the 
WHA and retired at the end of the 2008–09 NHL season. The WHA instituted 
sudden death overtime for regular season games to break ties. If no team 
scored during a 10-minute overtime period then the game would end in a 
tie. In the 1983-84 season, the NHL then instituted a 5-minute sudden death 
overtime period to break regular season ties. The WHA also experimented 
with blue colored pucks which were supposedly easier for fans to see. The 
NHL did not adopt the blue pucks, but any remaining blue WHA pucks are 
highly sought after collectors items. The former WHA clubs, by the terms 
of the expansion, could protect only two goalies and two skaters each in 
the player dispersal draft. The Jets posted a dismal nine wins in their 
second season (second-fewest all-time for a season in the NHL), and finished 
last that season. However, the other former WHA teams did respectably well 
in their first year, with the Whalers and Oilers earning playoff berths. 
The Oilers chose to protect Wayne Gretzky in the dispersal draft, which 
would prove fortuitous.[16] Gretzky and the Whalers' Gordie Howe were selected 
to the mid-season All-Star Game, respectively the second-youngest and the 
oldest ever to play in such a match. The 1980s was a successful period 
for the former WHA teams. The Oilers shattered numerous NHL records and 
amassed a Stanley Cup dynasty. The Jets, decimated by the dispersal draft, 
developed a solid nucleus of players which helped the club achieve respectable 
regular-season finishes. They had initially been placed in the Norris Division 
when the league re-aligned its divisions and adopted a playoff format that 
mandated intra-divisional matchups for the first two rounds in 1981. Winnipeg 
might have enjoyed better playoff fortunes had they been able to remain 
in then relatively weak Norris, however, just one year later, the Colorado 
Rockies moved east to New Jersey and the Jets were compelled to shift to 
the Smythe Division in order to re-balance the divisions. The Jets were 
never able to overcome the Oilers to win a Smythe Division title and advance 
past the second round of the postseason. The Nordiques developed a rivalry 
with the Montreal Canadiens and captured the Adams Division title in 1985–86. 
The Whalers had similar rivalries with the Boston Bruins and New York Rangers, 
attracting many Bruins and Rangers fans to their home games at the Hartford 
Civic Center, and skating to the 1986–87 Adams Division title. In the 1990s, 
the former WHA clubs suffered from escalating player salaries (ironically, 
the same trend that was instigated by the WHA), which were difficult to 
meet with the restricted revenue streams in their smaller markets. The 
ex-WHA clubs based in Canada were also hit hard by the declining value 
of the Canadian dollar. The Nordiques moved to Denver in 1995 and became 
the Colorado Avalanche, the Winnipeg Jets moved to Phoenix in 1996 and 
became the Phoenix Coyotes, and the Hartford Whalers moved to North Carolina 
in 1997 and became the Carolina Hurricanes. A year later, the Oilers came 
very close to being relocated to Houston until consortium of local investors 
came up with the funds necessary to keep the Oilers in Edmonton, so it 
remains the last WHA team still in its original city.[19] List of WHA players 
and executives inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame, for achievements 
in their hockey career. This is a list of the trophies and awards handed 
out annually by the World Hockey Association. Three Canadian teams completed 
all seven WHA seasons based in the same city, and were the same three Canadian 
teams that ultimately joined the NHL. The other WHA team to enter the NHL, 
the Whalers, were the only other WHA team to play all of its home games 
over seven seasons within a relatively small geographical area. Of the 
original 12 WHA franchises, only the Winnipeg Jets remained for all seven 
seasons without relocating, changing team names, or folding. Every season 
of the World Hockey Association had an All-Star game, but the format had 
