The World Baseball Challenge is an international baseball competition based 
in Prince George, British Columbia, Canada. The tournament was established 
in 2002 by Larry Seminoff, who is also the founder of the Grand Forks International. 
The current incarnation of the event, beginning in 2009, has been held 
every two years at Citizen Field in Prince George, British Columbia, Canada. 
It is sanctioned by the International Baseball Federation, Baseball Canada 
and Baseball BC. The field of participants for the event typically consists 
of amateur or competitors such as the United States Collegiate National 
Team, the Cuban National baseball B squad, independent Canadian club teams 
and Japanese industrial clubs.[1] The USA National Collegiate Baseball 
Team defeated the German National Team by a score of 8-1 in the final.[2] 
Drew Pomeranz of the University of Mississippi pitched a one-hitter against 
the tournament's only European team. German starting pitcher Tim Henkenjohann 
was named the Most Valuable Player of the tournament.[3] Team USA included 
several future Major League Baseball players, such as Trevor Bauer, Gerrit 
Cole, Yasmani Grandal, Sonny Gray, Kolten Wong and Pomeranz.[1] Canada, 
British Columbia, Prince George Axemen and the Bahamas National Team finished 
in third through sixth place respectively.[3][4] Cuban National Baseball 
B Team defeated Chinese Taipei 10-5 in the final.[5] The Cuban squad included 
future American League Rookie of the Year José Abreu. The Ciego de Ávila 
Tigres of the Cuban National Series defeated Japan's JX-ENEOS 14-4 by mercy 
rule in the championship game.[6] Team USA, with a roster featuring players 
from the Northwest Collegiate Baseball League, finished third in its return 
to the tournament. In 2015, the event's organizers announced that that 
year's tournament would be postponed until 2016 due to a lack of sponsor 
support. Canada was to be represented by the Langley Blaze U18, facing 
the winners of Japan's InterCity Baseball Tournament and players from the 
Northwest Collegiate Baseball League (Team USA). Teams from the Bahamas 
and Cuba were also expected to play in the tournament. The 2016 tournament 
is August 12–20, 2016. Roswell Invaders of the Pecos League are one of 
two teams from the United States.[7][8] Other teams participating are Kamloops 
Sun Devils, Sidearm Nation (Calgary), Team Japan and the Thurston County 
Senators (Olympia) of the Puget Sound Collegiate League.[9] Team Japan 
went undefeated to capture the Gold medal. They defeated Roswell Invaders 
