The World Baseball Classic (WBC) is an international baseball tournament 
sanctioned from 2006 to 2013 by the International Baseball Federation (IBAF) 
and after 2013 by the World Baseball Softball Confederation (WBSC). It 
was proposed to the IBAF by Major League Baseball (MLB), the Major League 
Baseball Players Association (MLBPA), and other professional baseball leagues 
and their players associations around the world. It is the main baseball 
tournament sanctioned by the WBSC, which grants to the winner the title 
of "World Champion".[1] It previously coexisted with Olympic Baseball (until 
2008) and the Baseball World Cup (until 2011) as IBAF–sanctioned tournaments,[2] 
but baseball has not been on the Olympic program since 2008, after it was 
voted out by the International Olympic Committee in 2005. The final men's 
Baseball World Cup was held in 2011, and was discontinued to streamline 
the international calendar. The 2013 Classic, the third edition of the 
event, was won by the Dominican Republic in an all-Caribbean World Baseball 
Classic Final.[3] The tournament is the first of its kind to have the National 
Teams of IBAF's member federations feature professional players from the 
major leagues around the world including Major League Baseball. In addition 
to providing a format for the best baseball players in the world to compete 
against one another while representing their home countries, the World 
Baseball Classic was created in order to further promote the game around 
the globe. After a 3-year gap between the first two installments of the 
tournament, plans were made for the World Baseball Classic to be repeated 
every four years following the 2009 event. The third installment of the 
Classic was held in 2013, and the next is scheduled for 2017. Modeled after 
the FIFA World Cup and organized in large part as a response to the International 
Olympic Committee's decision to remove baseball as an Olympic sport in 
2005, the WBC has grown into a major sporting event worldwide, though to 
a lesser extent in the United States. In fact, the final series in 2006 
and 2009 rank among the highest-rated sporting events in Japanese television 
history.[4] In the 2006 tournament, South Korea advanced to the semifinals 
with an undefeated 6–0 record but was defeated by Japan (which had lost 
twice to South Korea in the earlier rounds) for a berth in the final game. 
Meanwhile, Cuba defeated the Dominican Republic for the other berth in 
the final game. Japan then defeated Cuba 10–6 to be crowned the first champion 
of the World Baseball Classic. In the 2009 tournament, the controversial 
round-robin format from 2006 was replaced by a modified double-elimination 
format for the first two rounds (the semifinals and final game remained 
single-elimination). The eight teams advancing from the first round were 
the same as in 2006, except for a "Cinderella" performance by the Netherlands, 
which twice defeated the Dominican Republic to reach the second round. 
In the semifinals, South Korea defeated Venezuela while Japan defeated 
the United States, and Japan then emerged victorious for the second straight 
Classic, winning the final game over South Korea 5–3 in 10 innings. Although 
the 2006 and 2009 editions of the WBC were contested by the same pre-selected 
field of 16 teams, for the 2013 tournament only the 12 teams that won at 
least one game in 2009 were guaranteed a berth. The other four contested 
a qualifying round in late 2012, along with 12 additional teams. As a result, 
two new teams competed for the first time: (Brazil and Spain, respectively 
replacing Panama and South Africa). The main tournament took place in March 
2013, and ended with the Dominican Republic defeating Puerto Rico in the 
final. The Dominican Republic also became the first team to win the tournament 
with a perfect record (8-0). The first two iterations of the Classic featured 
the same sixteen teams. For the 2013 tournament, qualifier rounds were 
introduced. In the year prior to the tournament, the four worst teams from 
the previous tournament enter four-team modified double-elimination tournaments 
with twelve additional teams, with one team from each four-team tournament 
qualifying to the main tournament. Once the final of each World Baseball 
Classic concludes, the players of the winning team receive gold medals 
during the closing ceremony immediately after the losing team receives 
silver medals. The third place team receives bronze medals at a separate 
date. The 2006 and 2009 tournaments each had the same 16–team field, chosen 
by invitation. Beginning with the 2013 tournament, the four last-placed 
teams from the previous tournament's first round each contested a qualifying 
round against three new teams. The outcome of this process has been that 
14 of the original 16 teams have continued to appear in every tournament. 
In 2013, Canada and Chinese Taipei re-qualified while Panama and South 
Africa were respectively replaced by Brazil and Spain. In 2017, Australia 
and Mexico re-qualified while Brazil and Spain were respectively replaced 
by Israel and Colombia. The two teams to have won the tournament are Japan 
(2006, 2009) and the Dominican Republic (2013). Other teams to have reached 
the championship game are Cuba, Puerto Rico, and South Korea. Other teams 
to have reached the semifinals are the Netherlands, the United States, 
and Venezuela. Other teams to have reached the second round are Italy, 
Mexico, and Chinese Taipei. The remaining team to be mentioned is China, 
which has never advanced to the second round but has also never been forced 
to contest a qualifier. The most significant award for individual performance 
during the tournament is the Most Valuable Player Award. Whichever player 
wins it receives a trophy after the final. The inaugural winner of the 
award in 2006 was Japan's Daisuke Matsuzaka, who pitched 13 innings and 
finished with a 3–0 record. Soon after this performance, Matsuzaka received 
a multi–million dollar contract to join the Boston Red Sox of America's 
Major League Baseball.[5] Again in the 2009 World Baseball Classic, Matsuzaka 
received the world classic MVP, finishing with a record of 3–0 and an ERA 
of 2.54. In 2013, Robinson Canó won MVP after hitting .469 with two home 
runs and six RBI over the course of the tournament.[6] At the end of each 
edition of the World Baseball Classic, an all-star team is selected based 
on their play in the tournament. Three pitchers, eight other position players 
(one each at each position, including three outfielders), and a designated 
hitter are named to the team. In the three editions of the Classic thus 
far, players representing eight different teams have been named to an All-WBC 
team, with Japan leading the way with eight representatives. The winning 
team of each world baseball classic is rewarded a large silver trophy as 
its primary recognition. The two trophies earned by Japan during the inaugural 
and second classics have been on display at the Japanese Baseball Hall 
of Fame while the place to display the trophy won by the Dominican Republic 
team is yet to be decided. In addition to the standard rules of baseball, 
the World Baseball Classic employs the following additional rules: A pitcher 
cannot pitch more than A pitcher can still finish a batter's plate appearance 
even if the limit is reached, but must come out after completing the plate 
appearance. A pitcher cannot pitch until: Games are called if one team 
is ahead by Mercy rules do not apply during the championship round. The 
designated hitter rule applies for all games.[7] Starting with the 13th 
inning, teams automatically start with runners on first and second base.[8] 
These are the players in the two batting order positions previous to the 
leadoff batter for the inning. In the Qualifying Round of the 2017 tournament, 
extra inning rule will be employed from the 11th inning. Unlike regular 
season play, where the number of runs by which a team wins a game is not 
relevant, the number of runs by which a WBC team wins may be relevant if 
a tie later develops in the standings. This caused problems during the 
2013 WBC, where one game spawned a bench-clearing brawl between the Canadian 
and Mexican teams (Canadian hitter Chris Robinson had bunted for a base 
hit, causing Mexican pitcher Arnold Leon to throw three consecutive pitches 
at the next hitter, Rene Tosoni). A player is eligible to participate on 
a World Baseball Classic team if any one of the following criteria is met:[9] 
In 2006, many high caliber players from both Major League Baseball and 
in leagues around the world participated in the World Baseball Classic. 
Amongst the players that made the All–WBC team were Americans Derek Jeter 
and Ken Griffey Jr. From Japan, Daisuke Matsuzaka, Ichiro Suzuki and Tomoya 
Satozaki were on the team. Other internationals included players from Cuba—Yulieski 
Gourriel, Yoandy Garlobo and Yadel Martí; and from the Dominican Republic—Albert 
Pujols, Pedro Martínez and José Bautista. 2009 had a similarly high-profile 
field, with a number of players such as potential future Hall of Famers 
Iván Rodríguez, Pedro Martínez and Chipper Jones and the major international 
debuts of Cuba's Yoenis Céspedes and Aroldis Chapman. For the 2013 tournament, 
many high-profile players decided not to participate, including key players 
from the 2009 Japanese team such as Yu Darvish, Ichiro Suzuki, and Hisashi 
Iwakuma. However, other prominent players came, such as Miguel Cabrera, 
David Wright, R.A. Dickey, Joey Votto, Adrian Gonzalez, Robinson Canó, 
and José Reyes, among many others. The tournament was announced in May 
2005 by Commissioner of Baseball Bud Selig.[11] Major League Baseball had 
been attempting to create such a tournament for at least two years; negotiations 
with the players' union (MLBPA) and with the team owners had held the plan 
back. Owners, notably New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner, had been 
concerned about their star players being injured in international play 
before the beginning of spring training, and the professional season. This 
was a concern for the MLBPA as well, but their primary objection was with 
drug testing. MLB wanted the stricter Olympic standards in place for the 
tournament, while the union wanted current MLB standards in place. Eventually, 
a deal was reached on insurance for player contracts and a fairly tough 
drug testing standard. MLB teams would not be able to directly block their 
players from participating. Similarly, Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB) 
and its players' association had a disagreement over participation in the 
tournament. While the owners initially agreed to the invitation, the players' 
union was concerned about the time of year the tournament was scheduled 
to take place, as well as their right to be better represented for the 
2009 tournament. On September 16, 2005, after four months of negotiations, 
NPB officially notified the IBAF and MLB they had accepted the invitation. 
In September 2012, after having threatened to boycott the event despite 
its domestic popularity,[12] Japanese players agreed to take part after 
reaching a compromise with tournament organizers on sharing sponsorship 
and licensing revenue.[13] Though the first two World Baseball Classic 
finals were shown on ESPN in the United States, the entire 2013 tournament 
was shown exclusively on MLB Network domestically.[14] They also have the 
television rights for the 2017 Classic. Also at the moment, ESPN Deportes 
provides Spanish-language coverage and ESPN Radio has audio rights for 
the Classic.[15] Sportsnet is the current broadcaster in Canada while ESPN 
America covers the tournament for the United Kingdom, Ireland and other 
parts of Europe. The first qualifier round of the 2017 World Baseball Classic 
aired in the United States and Puerto Rico on the MLB Network; and in Australia, 
New Zealand, and selected surrounding islands on ESPN.[16] Not including 
qualifier games. Each host city is listed with the number of WBC rounds 
it has hosted in parenthesis. Each year is then listed along with the round 
hosted: 1st, 2nd, or Championship. Tokyo, Japan (5): 2006 1, 2009 1, 2013 
2, 2017 1, 2017 2 San Juan, Puerto Rico (4): 2006 1, 2006 2, 2009 1, 2013 
1 San Diego, California, United States (3): 2006 C, 2009 2, 2017 2 Miami, 
Florida, United States (3): 2009 2, 2013 2, 2017 1 Los Angeles, California, 
United States (2): 2009 C, 2017 C Phoenix, Arizona, and Scottsdale, Arizona, 
United States (2): 2006 1, 2013 1 San Francisco, California, United States 
(1): 2013 C Anaheim, California, United States (1): 2006 2 Lake Buena Vista, 
Florida, United States (1): 2006 1 Mexico City, Mexico (1): 2009 1 Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada (1): 2009 1 Fukuoka, Japan (1): 2013 1 Taichung, Taiwan 
(1): 2013 1 Seoul, South Korea (1): 2017 1 Guadalajara, Mexico (1): 2017 
