World Baseball Softball Confederation (WBSC) is the world governing body 
for the sports of baseball and softball. It was established in 2013 by 
the merger of the International Baseball Federation (IBAF) and International 
Softball Federation (ISF), the former world governing bodies for baseball 
and softball, respectively. Under WBSC's organizational structure, IBAF 
and ISF now serve as the Baseball Division and Softball Division of WBSC. 
Each division is governed by an Executive Committee, while the WBSC is 
governed by an Executive Board. Headquartered in Lausanne, Switzerland, 
the WBSC was granted recognition as the sole competent global authority 
for both the sports of baseball and softball by the International Olympic 
Committee at the 125th IOC Session on September 8, 2013. The WBSC has 208 
National Federation Members in 141 countries and territories across Asia, 
Africa, Americas, Europe and Oceania. Professional baseball organizations 
are also included and form an arm of the WBSC as Associate Members. As 
the recognised governing body in baseball/softball, the WBSC is charged 
with overseeing all international competitions and holds the exclusive 
rights of all competitions, tournaments and world championships featuring 
National Teams. These rights would be extended to the Olympic Games, if 
baseball and/or softball return on the Olympic Programme. WBSC's members 
hold the rights to organize and select National Teams. This exclusive authority 
of the WBSC and its Members in each constituent country to sanction and 
regulate the sport of baseball applies in the 141 territories in which 
the WBSC has an associated National Federation. Discussions to merge baseball 
and softball world governing bodies were sparked by a Memorandum of Understanding 
that saw baseball and softball leaders agree to form a joint bid to be 
added to the 2020 Olympics Games sports program.[1][2] Following its exclusion 
of baseball and softball from the Summer Olympics in 2005,[3] the IOC reclassified 
baseball and softball as two disciplines of the same sport.[4] As the IOC's 
guidance indicated the necessity for baseball and softball to be jointly 
considered for reinstatement in the Olympic programme, the two independent 
International Federations set out on a path toward a full and complete 
merger. In 2012, the International Baseball Federation (IBAF) and the International 
Softball Federation (ISF) laid out the essential ground rules for partnership 
and began working on a constitution that would guide the merger and provide 
a framework for governance, ethics and operations. At a historic IBAF Congress 
in Tokyo in April 2013, the Constitution was ratified and since it had 
already been approved by an ISF working group empowered to do so, the WBSC 
was officially formalized and empowered.[citation needed] The creation 
of a single federation allowed for the permanent alignment, merger and 
management of baseball and softball at the world level.[5] The merger resulted 
in an immediate boost to the governance, universality and gender equality 
of baseball and softball, criteria for an Olympic sport that are heavily 
valued by the IOC.[citation needed] At the first ever World Baseball Softball 
Congress -- in Hammamet, Tunisia -- Italy's Fraccari was elected to a seven-year 
term as the first president of WBSC, along with a fully elected Executive 
Board.[6] The WBSC is governed by the Executive Board, which consists of 
fourteen members: president, secretary general, two vice presidents, baseball 
executive vice president, softball executive vice president, treasurer, 
four members at large, athlete representative for baseball, athlete representative 
for softball, and global ambassador. The Baseball Division is governed 
by an Executive Committee, which has thirteen members: president, secretary 
general, 2nd vice president, 3rd vice president, treasurer, three members 
at large, four continental vice presidents (one each for Africa, Americas, 
Europe, and Oceania), and executive director. The Softball Division is 
governed by an Executive Committee that has twenty-three members: president, 
secretary general, 1st vice president, 2nd vice president, treasurer, twelve 
vice presidents (two each for Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America, and 
Oceania, and one each for North America and English-speaking Caribbean), 
two at-large members, two athlete representatives, immediate past president, 
and executive director. The WBSC has four departments: media, finance, 
tournaments, and marketing. It also has several commissions. Africa Americas 
