WPGB is a country radio station based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Owned 
by iHeartMedia, the station broadcasts on 104.7 MHz with an ERP of 13 kW. 
Its studios are located in Green Tree, while its transmitter is located 
in Pittsburgh. Though the station first signed on the air as WYDD in 1967, 
its roots can be traced back to 1963 on 100.7 FM as WPGH and under the 
ownership of Gateway Broadcasting Enterprises, which also owned New Kensington-licensed 
AM station WKPA (now WMNY). 100.7 was also (and still is) licensed to New 
Kensington. Gateway owner Nelson L. Goldberg was interested in acquiring 
an improved FM signal with Pittsburgh market penetration. That opportunity 
presented itself in 1967, when a channel opened up for 104.7. To acquire 
the new signal, Goldberg had to spin off WPGH, which was purchased by Milton 
Hammond and moved to Millvale, where it was rechristened as big-band formatted 
WNUF-FM. That station is known today as WBZZ. 104.7 adopted the WPGH call 
letters, but soon afterwards, the station changed to a full-time jazz format 
and changed its call letters to WYDD, for "the 'WIDE' world of Pittsburgh", 
using an elongated globe as its logo. A fragment of the jazz format remained 
as "Jazzz Impressions", a weekend specialty smooth jazz show that premiered 
in 1976. The station would then move to a more free-form rock format in 
the 1970s, and then a Top 40 format by the early 1980s, which it maintained 
under a variety of different monikers such as "Y-105" and "Power 105". 
On May 17, 1989, at 7:30 PM, the station became known as "Energy 105", 
and brought about the call letter change to WNRJ. Before the changeover, 
the station manager at the time, Bob Hank, executed an early viral marketing 
plan by playing the song "What's On Your Mind (Pure Energy)" by Information 
Society non-stop in a loop for 25 1/2 hours — focusing on a repeat of the 
"Pure Energy" sample from Leonard Nimoy as Star Trek's Mr. Spock. The marketing 
stunt caused listeners to call emergency services concerned that some calamity 
befell the DJs and other station employees. Hank told reporters he was 
only trying to draw attention to the station's switch in format and new 
call letters. "We were just trying to draw a little bit of attention," 
Hank said. "We never dreamed it would go this far." "Energy" was led by 
WABC radio legend and consultant Rick Sklar and WYDD Program Director Tony 
Florentino. Among the talent hired for "Energy" was New York City native 
Mike Frazer, who remained in Pittsburgh and has been a part of WWSW since 
1990, and Columbus, Ohio nighttime radio legend Suzy Waud. The format was 
successful in terms of ratings, but quickly became too costly to maintain. 
One of the chief competitors between Top 40 station WBZZ (then known as 
B94, now as KDKA-FM) and AOR-formatted WDVE, the station maintained a fairly 
consistent lineup until its sale to Salem Communications in 1989, ending 
more than two decades of local ownership. WYDD had its main studio located 
along with WKPA in New Kensington since its beginnings, but maintained 
a separate sales office at Gateway Towers in Pittsburgh for many years. 
Gateway Broadcasting Enterprises had initially agreed to sell WYDD and 
its sister station WKPA to Salem Communications in 1987, but legal complexities 
between the two companies delayed the finalization to the end of December 
1989. While initially reporting that WNRJ would keep its format, Salem 
officials announced the following month that the station would switch to 
an easy listening format, an unusual move at a time when established easy-listening 
stations were migrating towards soft adult contemporary music. The call 
letters were switched to WEZE, shared by Salem's co-owned AM station in 
Boston, and the easy-listening format was adopted on January 15, 1990, 
with the intent to switch from that format to Christian talk once the ministry 
contracts could be obtained.[2][3] In April 1991, the studios were moved 
to Green Tree borough, located in Pittsburgh's South Hills, to Seven Parkway 
Center, Suite 625, one floor below WLTJ. The tower site was then moved 
later that same year from Murray Hill Road in East Deer Township (which 
was also half of WKPA's two-tower directional antenna array) to 750 Ivory 
Avenue, just off I-279 in Pittsburgh, the home of WPGH-TV. The much higher 
tower location allowed a power reduction to 13 kW, but a decades-long coverage 
problem for the southern suburbs of Pittsburgh was finally alleviated. 
In October 1991, Salem Communications completed its intended format switch 
to Christian Talk, mirroring the format adopted by its co-owned stations, 
and adopting the call sign WORD-FM. This station continues today at 101.5 
FM. After years of negotiations, the opportunity to purchase heritage Christian 
stations WPIT & WPIT-FM finally presented itself to Salem Communications. 
Salem purchased the station in early 1993, and though now legally permitted 
to hold 104.7 (thanks to duopoly) in addition to WPIT & WPIT-FM, Salem 
chose to spin off 104.7 to Entercom, licensee of WDSY-FM and the former 
WEEP. WPIT & WPIT-FM's facilities were moved to Greentree, and 104.7's 
operations were moved to WPIT's longtime home in downtown Pittsburgh at 
Gateway Towers, where it was joined by WEEP and WDSY. Both stations would 
remain there for about five years, until all three stations were split 
off and sold to three different owners. Operations for 104.7 would move 
temporarily to One Allegheny Square in Pittsburgh, and then finally to 
200 Fleet Street in Greentree. After Entercom purchased the station, and 
after stunting briefly with a classic rock format, on February 2, 1993, 
104.7 changed to country, branded as "104.7 The Rebel" WXRB.[4][5][6] The 
station was to complement WDSY and WEEP, who targeted an older audience, 
while WXRB targeted a younger audience with its "Young Country" direction, 
which was very popular during that time due to a recent spike in country 
music listenership. On August 29, 1995, after stunting for a few days with 
snippets of songs from random genres, as well as redirecting listeners 
to WDSY, 104.7 flipped to modern rock, branded as "The Revolution 104.7" 
WNRQ, after modern rock had proven to be the mainstream following its success 
in other markets. The first song on "The Revolution" was "Send Me on My 
Way" by Pittsburgh band Rusted Root.[5][7] WNRQ was Pittsburgh's first 
modern rock station. The format would only last just shy of one year, due 
to the station being sold to Secret Communications, then-owner of WXDX, 
and who wanted to eliminate the overlap between the two stations.[8] On 
June 1, 1996, after playing "Killing in the Name" by Rage Against the Machine, 
104.7 flipped again, this time to smooth jazz, branding as "Smooth Jazz 
104.7" (with the WJJJ call letters instituted on June 28, 1996).[9][10] 
At 2 PM on May 24, 1999, the station flipped to urban oldies, branded as 
"Pittsburgh's Jammin' Oldies, 104.7 The Beat."[11] The format was widely 
popular, though management skewed the format towards more current material 
to attract a broad audience; this didn't help, as the station's ratings 
began to sink. The station changed its slogan to "Pittsburgh's Jammin' 
Hits" in a half-hearted attempt to attract new listeners, and modified 
its format towards Urban AC in 2003 to compete against WAMO. On January 
2, 2004, the station flipped to a Talk format, branded as "NewsTalk 104.7". 
The current WPGB call letters took effect that day. During its ten years 
as a talk station, for most of that time The War Room with Quinn and Rose, 
a show hosted by longtime Pittsburgh disc jockey Jim Quinn, was flagshipped 
at WPGB. Quinn was dismissed in a contract dispute in November 2013. When 
WPGB was a talk station, its programming was fairly standard for a Clear 
Channel station of its type, a regional morning show (itself simulcast 
on several stations throughout northern Appalachia and New England), followed 
by Glenn Beck, Rush Limbaugh and Sean Hannity, with Dave Ramsey and Andy 
Dean in the evening hours. From 6-8 p.m., Greg Henson hosted a sports talk 
show featuring interviews other local sports talk show hosts conducted 
earlier in the day on sister stations. Weekday newscasts were supplied 
by Cleveland station WTAM and Fox News Radio. In addition, Glen Meakem 
hosted a program from 8-9:30am on Saturday and Sunday mornings. In July 
2014, rumors surfaced that 104.7 would soon flip back to country, possibly 
named 104.7 The Bull to match similar stations in Boston, Atlanta, St. 
Louis, Lexington, Portland, and Houston with the format and branding, following 
a decline of ratings from the previous November (when Quinn and Rose were 
still with the station), from a 4.1 rating to a 2.5 in the June 2014 Nielsen 
ratings. On August 7, 2014, Clear Channel sold off the entire intellectual 
property unit of WPGB's talk format to Frank Iorio, who was taking over 
operations of WJAS. WJAS dropped their longtime adult standards format 
at noon that day and began a three-hour simulcast of WPGB-FM (the duration 
of The Rush Limbaugh Show). Both stations replaced all local commercial 
breaks with sweepers prompting listeners to move to WJAS, interspersed 
with a heart monitor sound effect. At 3 p.m., WPGB abruptly cut away from 
the top-of-the-hour newscast (fed from the Total Traffic Network facilities 
in Cleveland) and, after playing a few song snippets poking fun at the 
format change - notably "No More Words" by Berlin - debuted a country music 
format as "Big 104.7."[1][12] The first song on "Big" was "This Is How 
We Roll" by Florida Georgia Line.[13] The new station launched with 10,000 
songs in a row, and will now compete with WDSY for Steel City country listeners. 
On April 25, 2006, Clear Channel announced that WPGB's HD2 subchannel will 
carry a smooth jazz music format, which was a previous station format under 
the call letters WJJJ. WPGB-HD2 currently airs a simulcast of sports-formatted 
WBGG 970 AM. On September 12, 2006, Clear Channel and the Pittsburgh Pirates 
announced a five-year agreement in which WPGB would become the "new radio 
broadcast and strategic promotional partner of the Pirates beginning with 
the 2007 (Major League Baseball) season." WPGB was the Pirates' flagship 
radio station, having replaced KDKA, which broadcast the first Major League 
Baseball game on radio (between the Pittsburgh Pirates and the Philadelphia 
Phillies) in 1921, and served as the Pirates' flagship station for 52 seasons 
(1955–2006). On July 6, 2010, the station was announced as the new home 
for the Duquesne Dukes men's basketball team. The station also lost its 
partnership with the Pittsburgh Pirates after the 2011 season to KDKA-FM. 
¹ Clear-channel stations with extended nighttime coverage Coordinates: 
