WPNT, virtual channel 22 (UHF digital channel 42), is a MyNetworkTV-affiliated 
television station located in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States. 
The station is owned by the Sinclair Broadcast Group, as part of a duopoly 
with Fox affiliate WPGH-TV (channel 53). The two stations share studios 
located on Ivory Avenue in the city's Summer Hill section, WPNT's transmitter 
is located in Monroeville, Pennsylvania. WPNT carries programming from 
the American Sports Network syndication package and Ring of Honor, both 
owned by Sinclair. On cable, WPNT is carried on Comcast and Verizon FiOS 
channel 10 (standard definition), and 812 (Comcast high definition) and 
512 (Verizon high definition). The station's digital channel is multiplexed: 
Until the end of 2006, WPNT featured The Tube music video channel on a 
digital subchannel. WPNT shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 
22, on February 17, 2009, the original date in which full-power television 
stations in the United States were to transition from analog to digital 
broadcasts under federal mandate (the deadline was later extended to June 
12). The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 
42.[4] Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the 
station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 22. WPNT was 
one of three stations in the Pittsburgh market to discontinue normal programming 
on their analog signals on the original signoff date, alongside sister 
station WPGH-TV and then-WQED-owned WQEX. As part of the SAFER Act,[5] 
WPNT and WPGH kept their analog signals on the air until March 19 to inform 
viewers of the digital television transition through a loop of public service 
announcements from the National Association of Broadcasters. Rising out 
of the ashes of the former WENS-TV, WPNT first signed on the air on September 
26, 1978, as WPTT-TV (which stood for Pittsburgh Twenty Two, in reference 
the UHF channel on which it broadcast), the market's second commercial 
independent station and its fourth UHF station (after WPGH-TV). It was 
owned by the Commercial Radio Institute (which later became Sinclair Broadcast 
Group). It started out running a number of popular off-network sitcoms 
from the 1950s and 1960s, off-network dramas and westerns, very old movies 
and network programming pre-empted by WTAE-TV (channel 4), KDKA-TV (channel 
2) and WIIC (channel 11, now WPXI-TV). For a time, WPTT-TV aired the children's 
television program Captain Pitt, which featured older cartoon shorts. WPTT-TV 
also originated more of its own local programming with Prize Bowling, which 
originally began as Bowling for Dollars on ABC network competitor WTAE-TV 
for many years until host Nick Perry was jailed for a lottery broadcast 
scam. The succeeding host was not received well by viewers, and ended up 
being canceled. WPTT-TV took the opportunity to fill the void in the market 
with Prize Bowling, first hosted by Pittsburgh radio legend Roger Willoughby-Ray 
and then by Pittsburgh Steelers announcer Jack Fleming. The show's success 
was modest at best, and was canceled after two years. Other programs of 
varying degrees of success were The Ghost Host, Eddie's Digest and Studio 
Wrestling. The station also aired a newscast in the early 1980s, a rarity 
at this time for stations not affiliated with the then-major networks (ABC, 
CBS and NBC). This newscast was called WPTT News, and in the opening segment, 
the letters "news" were formed from a compass indicating the four cardinal 
directions. This opening segment, featuring then-anchorman Kevin Evans, 
appeared briefly (and was audible) in the movie Flashdance during a scene 
where Jennifer Beals' character returns home and turns on the television. 
The presentation was relatively low-budget, with the anchor simply reading 
copy, with no field video shots other than the weather read over a stock 
video shot denoting the conditions outside. WPGH-TV, which had hitherto 
been a rather low-budget operation, was purchased by the Meredith Corporation 
in 1978, and became more aggressive with its programming strategy. Despite 
having a highly powerful signal that offered double the coverage of WPGH-TV's 
(5 million watts visual, compared to WPGH-TV's 2.345 million), WPTT-TV 
became unable to acquire newer shows, and ended up with programming that 
no other stations wanted. Still, the shows run on WPTT-TV were not exactly 
low-budget, including such classic series as I Love Lucy, Star Trek, Leave 
It To Beaver, The Andy Griffith Show and Hogan's Heroes. The station also 
ran business news programming from the Financial News Network. The station's 
ratings were very low, and it was considered as an "also-ran" in the market. 
For many years, WPTT-TV languished as just another local independent station, 
airing reruns of television shows, many of which were past their prime. 
In 1986, Sinclair made an offer to buy WPGH-TV and sell WPTT-TV to the 
Home Shopping Network, but were outbid by Lorimar-Telepictures. After that, 
WPTT-TV added some more recent shows like All In The Family, Happy Days 
and Laverne & Shirley, and more recent cartoons and movies. By the late 
1980s, both WPGH-TV, which was again sold, and WPTT-TV were losing money. 
WPTT-TV began running Home Shopping Network programming nightly between 
1 and 6 a.m. In 1990, WPTT-TV and Pittsburgh's News Corporation (not affiliated 
with the News Corporation that owned Fox until 2013) entered into an agreement 
to produce a 10:00 p.m. newscast to air on WPTT-TV which was to begin in 
the summer of 1991, and would feature news anchors from WTAE-TV. After 
going through three owners, WPGH-TV was put up for sale again; Sinclair 
placed a bid for the station in 1991 and won, however, the group struggled 
to obtain financing. As part of a deal, the group sold WPTT-TV to its operations 
manager Eddie Edwards (who had been with WPTT-TV since its launch in 1978, 
and had become best known as host of the station's locally produced public 
affairs program Eddie's Digest, targeted towards local African-Americans). 
Soon after, the planned newscast with WPTT-TV was put on hold with an option 
to either produce it for WPGH-TV, reinstate the plans with WPTT-TV, or 
cancel it; it was eventually canceled. WPTT-TV also made a deal to increase 
Home Shopping Network programming hours to at least 15 hours a day with 
the option of running the programming the entire day. Rumors abounded that 
WPTT-TV would be running HSN programming for most of, if not the entire 
day, once the sale was completed. It was already established that some 
of WPTT-TV's first-run syndicated shows would go to WPGH-TV, such as The 
Arsenio Hall Show. The sales closed on August 29, 1991 with Sinclair acquiring 
WPGH-TV from Renaissance Broadcasting in the fall of that year. Rights 
to cash programming from WPTT-TV's schedule were moved to WPGH-TV, while 
barter shows were returned to syndication distributors (it was thought 
that WPTT-TV might wind up with some low-budget children's shows to run 
a couple hours a day). But Eddie Edwards acquired WPTT-TV without programming 
and began to run Home Shopping Network programming 24 hours a day on WPTT-TV 
in September, which led to the station being dropped from the market's 
cable systems. Staffs from both WPGH-TV and WPTT-TV experienced layoffs. 
Some of WPTT-TV's ex-employees went to WPGH-TV while others stayed at WPTT-TV, 
and many others were laid off. WPGH-TV kept a decent amount of their own 
employees, taking some from both stations. Edwards then made a deal with 
Sinclair to buy time on his station from 3 p.m. to midnight (effectively 
creating one of the first local marketing agreements, which Sinclair would 
use heavily in its later station acquisitions), and get area cable providers 
to reinstate WPTT-TV on their lineups. The deal took effect on January 
6, 1992 with WPTT-TV airing cartoons, sitcoms, movies and dramas that Sinclair 
had no room to air on WPGH-TV. Sinclair's air time on the station expanded 
in 1993 to begin at noon. In the fall of 1995, WPTT-TV began to run WPGH-TV 
programming from 6 a.m. to midnight and picked up The Disney Afternoon 
cartoon block, which had been dropped by KDKA-TV when that station began 
running CBS' entire lineup. WPTT-TV affiliated with UPN when the network 
launched on January 16, 1995, and changed its on-air branding to "UPN 22". 
Sinclair's air time on the station increased later that year to begin at 
6 a.m. as well; by 1997, WPTT-TV and WPGH-TV consolidated their operations 
into one building. WPTT-TV dropped its UPN affiliation in 1998 (which moved 
to WNPA-TV, channel 19) and affiliated with The WB as part of a wide-ranging 
affiliation deal that saw Sinclair Broadcast Group's owned and managed 
UPN affiliates and independent stations switch to the network.[6] The station 
also changed its call sign to WCWB (for "C, or See, the WB") to reflect 
its new affiliation. The WCWB calls had previously been used by the NBC 
affiliate in Macon, Georgia (now WMGT-TV); the WPTT calls were later used 
by a radio station on 1360 AM in Pittsburgh, which later changed its callsign 
to WMNY in 2008. Sinclair finally bought back WCWB from Eddie Edwards in 
2000, after the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) relaxed its media 
ownership rules to allow one company to own two television stations in 
the same market, provided the market has at least eight full-power stations 
and that neither of the two stations involved in the duopoly is among the 
four highest-rated. WPGH-TV is the senior partner in the duopoly because 
of its Fox affiliation and because of its longer establishment. As a WB 
affiliate, WCWB aired off-network sitcoms, reality shows, court shows, 
talk shows and movies, in addition to WB primetime programming and cartoons 
from Kids' WB. After channel 22 affiliated with MyNetworkTV, WPMY kept 
the syndicated programs, but Kids' WB programming moved to WPCW as the 
block became part of The CW's lineup. WPNT now airs infomercials and syndicated 
children's programming in the timeslots formerly occupied by the Kids' 
WB Saturday morning lineup. On January 24, 2006, CBS Corporation and Time 
Warner announced that The WB and UPN would be shut down and replaced by 
The CW, a new network featuring programming from both networks.[7][8] Through 
an affiliation agreement with 11 UPN affiliates owned by CBS (including 
the three were passed over for an affiliation deal from Tribune-owned former 
fellow WB affiliates), UPN owned-and-operated station WNPA was named the 
Pittsburgh affiliate of The CW, and later changed its call letters to WPCW. 
WCWB, meanwhile, later decided to affiliate with MyNetworkTV, another new 
network owned by News Corporation's Fox Entertainment Group and 20th Television 
divisions. On April 17, WCWB changed its call letters to WPMY to reflect 
the new affiliation while keeping the "Pittsburgh's WB22" until the WB's 
end.[9] On August 14, 2006, WPMY rebranded itself as MyPittsburghTV; the 
channel 22 reference was excluded from the new brand as cable providers 
in the market carry WPMY on different channels (the official brand name 
is "My Pittsburgh TV", although the logo has it appear to read as "My TV 
Pittsburgh"). The station withdrew from using their channel number in most 
promotional forms outside of sign-on/sign-off disclosures for FCC purposes, 
as the station instead used its Comcast channel 10 for advertising purposes 
with them and Armstrong Cable having the station in that slot; both systems 
cover the majority of the Pittsburgh market. Channel 22 officially joined 
MyNetworkTV when it launched on September 5, 2006. Unlike many other former 
WB affiliates switching to MyNetworkTV (and despite WNPA being CBS-owned), 
WPMY continued to air The WB's primetime schedule in the late night hours 
until September 18, 2006, when The CW launched. On May 19, 2015, WPMY quietly 
changed its call letters to WPNT for the landmark "Point" confluence of 
the Ohio, Allegheny and Monongahela rivers in downtown Pittsburgh, which 
previously appeared in the market nearly three decades earlier on FM 92.9, 
now WLTJ. Coincidentally, WLTJ also shares its transmitter facilities with 
WPGH-TV and WPNT. On September 1, 2015, WPNT changed its on-air branding 
to 22 The Point. WPNT intends to focus more on local programming, particularly 
sports programming, including a weekly high school football package on 
Friday nights, while remaining a MyNetworkTV affiliate. Also no subchannels 
were planned at time.[2] As part of the changes, WPNT hired controversial 
sports personality Mark Madden for a two-hour sports talk show every weeknight 
and[10] continue to air games from the minor league affiliate the Pittsburgh 
Penguins, namely the Wilkes-Barre/Scranton Penguins while adding the featured 
Pennsylvania State Athletic Conference Saturday game.[2] On January 8, 
2016, Sinclair announced that American Sports Network would launch as a 
dedicated, digital multicast network under the American Sports Network 
