Secondary: WPWR-TV, virtual channel 50 (UHF digital channel 51), is a CW-affiliated 
and MyNetworkTV owned-and-operated television station serving Chicago, 
Illinois, United States that is licensed to Gary, Indiana. The station 
is owned by the Fox Television Stations subsidiary of 21st Century Fox, 
as part of a duopoly with Fox owned-and-operated station WFLD (channel 
32). The two stations share studio facilities located at Michigan Plaza 
in the Chicago Loop; WPWR's transmitter is located atop the Willis Tower 
on South Wacker Drive. On cable, the station is available on Comcast on 
channel 8 SD/184 HD, AT&T U-verse on channel 8 SD/1008 HD, and WOW! on 
channel 8 SD/204 HD. The station first signed on the air on April 4, 1982 
as a shared station operation broadcasting on UHF channel 60, split between 
English-language WPWR-TV and Spanish-language WBBS-TV. The Federal Communications 
Commission awarded the license to two locally based station owners who 
had competed heavily for the construction permit, and were the top contenders 
among a half-dozen applicants for the channel 60 license. Metrowest Corporation 
– owned by Fred Eychaner, which would later become Newsweb Corporation 
– was the original applicant for the UHF channel 60 license in 1978, and 
was the original owner of WPWR. Chicago resident Marcelino Miyares – who 
owned WBBS – assisted Eychaner in completing the construction of channel 
60, and was actually the one that was granted the license. Under the arrangement, 
the combined operation operated as an independent station. A large percentage 
of WPWR's programming schedule was occupied by Sportsvision, a new pay 
television service which Eychaner had developed through a deal with Chicago 
White Sox co-owners Jerry Reinsdorf and Eddie Einhorn. To receive the service, 
viewers had to rent a set-top converter and pay a monthly fee in order 
to view Sportsvision's event telecasts, involving the Chicago sports teams. 
However, Sportsvision was not a success and transitioned into a cable channel 
in January 1983, eventually evolving into SportsChannel Chicago. With Sportsvision 
removed from its schedule, Eychaner began acquiring public domain movies 
to air on weekends and a few shows that were still owned by fellow independent 
station WSNS-TV (channel 44, now a Telemundo owned-and-operated station), 
which began carrying the ONTV subscription entertainment service on a full-time 
basis in the fall of 1982. These programs ran weekdays from 6:00 to 8:00 a.m. 
and from 5:00 to 7:00 p.m., as well as from 6:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. on weekends; 
public domain movies also ran during the overnight hours when WBBS signed 
off for the night. WPWR also chose to compete with rival independent WCIU-TV 
(channel 26)'s locally produced business news service, Stock Market Observer, 
by running national business programming from the Financial News Network 
each weekday from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. The FNN simulcast was dropped 
in January 1984, at which time the station added several classic sitcoms 
from the early to mid-1950s and older cartoons to its schedule. In 1984, 
more recognizable classic sitcoms and newer barter cartoons were mixed 
into the schedule. While Miyares won the license, he was only able to acquire 
enough programming to run about eight hours per day. WBBS' schedule featured 
an array of Spanish-language programs – including telenovelas and movies, 
as well as locally produced shows, such as the popular music video program 
Imagen, hosted by local Spanish-language television personality (and now 
media executive) Rey Mena and Vivianne Plazas. One of the notable events 
for WBBS occurred in 1983, when the station introduced the Latin teen pop 
group Menudo (which included a young Ricky Martin), to Chicago's Latino 
community. WBBS programmed channel 60 daily from 7:00 p.m. to 2:30 a.m., 
with Eychaner's WPWR purchasing the rest of the time. Another twist in 
this arrangement was that although the two stations broadcast from the 
same transmitter, as per the FCC's channel assignment table, WBBS was actually 
licensed to West Chicago while WPWR was licensed to Aurora. In the spring 
of 1985, WSNS-TV announced that station would become an affiliate of the 
Spanish International Network (the forerunner to the present-day Univision). 
Miyares subsequently realized that he could not hope to compete with SIN, 
and reduced the programming on WBBS' schedule to just Spanish-language 
movies that aired only on weekend evenings. He sold the rest of the weekday 
time periods that his station had occupied to Eychaner, allowing WPWR to 
broadcast full-time on channel 60, at least on weekdays. Meanwhile, Eychaner 
acquired the construction permit for WGMI, a proposed station that would 
be licensed to Gary and broadcast on UHF channel 56, for $1.5 million. 
The permit had been held by a group of Indiana businessmen since 1976, 
but the station was never built and effectively, never signed on. Eychaner 
planned to move the WPWR intellectual unit and call letters to channel 
56, while broadcasting its transmitter from a tower in downtown Chicago. 
However, he was unable to have the channel 56 transmitter relocated because 
of the presence of channel 60 there; FCC regulations in effect to prevent 
signal interference between analog UHF stations effectively required television 
stations broadcasting from nearby transmitter sites to be spaced at least 
six channels apart. However, Eychaner had a backup plan. Soon after acquiring 
the construction permit for channel 56, he also acquired the license for 
WCAE, a non-commercial station on UHF channel 50 in St. John, Indiana. 
He successfully petitioned the FCC to move the non-commercial allocation 
from 50 to 56, which would eventually become WYIN (now licensed to Gary) 
when that station signed on in November 1987. Eychaner then relocated the 
channel 50 transmitter to downtown Chicago, and moved WPWR's programming 
to that allocation. WBBS shut down for good in early 1986.[1] However, 
Miyares still owned the channel 60 license; he then sold WBBS' remaining 
airtime on the channel to Eychaner, turning WPWR into a 24-hour operation. 
Later that year, Eychaner purchased the channel 60 license for $11 million, 
formally ending the split-channel arrangement when WPWR took over the station 
full-time on August 22, 1986. The following year, Eychaner sold the channel 
60 allocation to Home Shopping Network for $25 million, in order to move 
the WPWR intellectual unit to UHF channel 50. When the frequency swap occurred 
on January 18, 1987,[2] WPWR moved to channel 50, with a rerun of the anthology 
series Night Gallery as the first program it aired on its new frequency; 
the now HSN-owned channel 60 simultaneously had its call letters changed 
to WEHS (now UniMás owned-and-operated station WXFT-DT). As time went on, 
WPWR began acquiring many cartoons, more recent off-network sitcoms, drama 
series, movies and first-run syndicated shows (including Star Trek: The 
Next Generation in 1987 and War of the Worlds in 1988; at least one Star 
Trek spinoff would air on WPWR from that time until June 2005, when UPN 
aired the last network episode of Star Trek: Enterprise). Within a year 
of starting full-time operation on channel 50, WPWR had firmly established 
itself as the third independent station in Chicago, behind WGN-TV (channel 
9) and future sister station WFLD (channel 32). Although WFLD had become 
a charter owned-and-operated station of Fox in October 1986, that network 
would not air a full week's worth of programming until September 1993, 
so for all intents and purposes it was still programmed as an independent. 
In late August 1994, the station began carrying the Spelling Premiere Network 
syndication service, which featured a "Spelling Success" run of past series 
from the Spelling production portfolio.[3] On November 10, 1993, WPWR-TV 
signed an affiliation agreement with Chris-Craft/United Television, to 
become a charter affiliate of the United Paramount Network (UPN); WPWR 
competed with WGN-TV – which initially turned down an affiliation with 
The WB, a joint venture between Time Warner and WGN parent Tribune Broadcasting 
that debuted the week before UPN launched – for the affiliation.[4] WGN, 
meanwhile, reversed course and signed an affiliation agreement with The 
WB one month later on December 3.[5] WPWR-TV formally affiliated with UPN 
when the network launched on January 16, 1995; the station continued to 
adding syndicated programs to its lineup during this time.[6] As WPWR was 
never owned by either of UPN's parent companies, Chris-Craft Industries 
or Viacom (the latter – which maintained a program partnership with the 
network from its launch through Paramount Television – acquired 50% of 
UPN in 1996 and bought out Chris-Craft's stake in 2000), it was the largest 
UPN station that was not owned by the network. On June 27, 2002, Newsweb 
Corporation sold WPWR to Fox Television Stations (at the time, a subsidiary 
of News Corporation, which in turn was the then-parent company of the Fox 
network) for $425 million – a handsome return on Eychaner's original investment 
from 20 years earlier. The sale closed on August 21, 2002. As a result 
of this transaction, Fox now owned UPN's three largest affiliates; it already 
owned WWOR-TV in New York City and KCOP-TV in Los Angeles as a result of 
its $5.5 billion purchase of most of Chris-Craft's television holdings 
the previous year.[7][8][9][10] Although rumors abounded that UPN's future 
was in jeopardy due to its three largest stations being effectively owned 
by the corporate parent of another network, Fox renewed the network's affiliation 
agreements for WPWR and the group's eight other UPN-affiliated stations 
for three additional years from September 24, 2003 to September 15, 2006.[11] 
On January 24, 2006, the Warner Bros. Entertainment unit of Time Warner 
and CBS Corporation announced that the two companies would shut down their 
respective networks, The WB and UPN, and combine their individual programs 
to create a new "fifth" television network called The CW.[12][13] With 
the announcement, The CW signed a ten-year agreement with Tribune Broadcasting 
to affiliate 16 of the group's 19 WB affiliates – including Tribune flagship 
station WGN-TV – with the new network. In response to having its UPN affiliates 
be passed over for affiliations with The CW, Fox Television Stations stripped 
all network branding from and ceased promoting the network's programming 
on its UPN-affiliated stations. However, it is very unlikely that WPWR 
would have been selected as The CW's Chicago affiliate in any event. Representatives 
for The CW were on record as preferring to align with UPN and The WB's 
"strongest" affiliates; WGN-TV had been well ahead of WPWR in the ratings 
since the latter's sign-on. One month later on February 22, 2006, Fox announced 
the launch of its own "sixth" network called MyNetworkTV, which would be 
operated by Fox Television Stations and its sibling subsidiary Twentieth 
Television,[14][15] with WPWR and the other Fox-owned UPN affiliates serving 
as the nuclei for the new network. In the interim, the station changed 
its on-air branding to "Power 50" (as a play on its call letters), which 
remained in use for most of the summer of 2006. However, the station simultaneously 
began to use the "My 50" brand in some advertisements to promote the change, 
particularly at station-sponsored events held during that timeframe (such 
as the Taste of Chicago); this brand began to be used by the station officially 
in July 2006. WPWR became a MyNetworkTV owned-and-operated station when 
the network launched on September 5, 2006. In September 2014, the New York 
Post reported that Fox Television Stations was considering trading WPWR 
to Tribune Broadcasting (which would have created a new duopoly with WGN-TV), 
in exchange for acquiring that company's Seattle Fox affiliate KCPQ, as 
part of the company's efforts to purchase stations in markets with teams 
in the National Football Conference (to which the Fox network holds primary 
broadcast rights). Should the proposal have been accepted, Tribune would 
legally have been able to create a duopoly in Chicago as a result of the 
then-recent spin-off of its publishing business (which resulted in the 
severance of WGN-TV's joint ownership with the Chicago Tribune after 66 
years).[16] On September 23, Tribune announced that it had been notified 
by Fox that its affiliation with KCPQ would be terminated effective January 
17, 2015, but that discussions between the two companies were still ongoing;[17] 
on October 7, The Wall Street Journal reported that WPWR was no longer 
included in the negotiations (Fox would subsequently back off its attempt 
to acquire KCPQ as well as a lame-duck purchase of KBCB in nearby Bellingham, 
Washington, opting to renew its affiliation agreement with the former on 
October 17).[18][19] On May 23, 2016 (although first reported by Robert 
Feder on his website the day prior), Tribune Broadcasting and The CW reached 
a five-year affiliation agreement that renewed the network's affiliations 
with twelve of Tribune's CW-affiliated stations through the 2020-21 television 
season.[20][21] However, in negotiating the terms of the deal, Tribune 
decided not to renew The CW's affiliation with WGN-TV after the expiration 
of their initial ten-year agreement on September 1, 2016, choosing instead 
to operate it as an independent station in order to allow WGN to increase 
the number of sports telecasts it carries annually without having to work 
around contractual stipulations that limit the number of daytime and prime 
time programming preemptions it could make each year (which resulted in 
WGN having to defer some sports broadcasts to WPWR – and previously from 
1999 to 2015, to WCIU-TV – under time-buy agreements) as well as makegood 
clauses requiring WGN to rebroadcast CW shows preempted in their regular 
time periods due to sports events scheduled during network programming 
hours later in the week (usually on Saturday and/or Sunday evenings, as 
The CW does not offer any prime time programming on those nights).[22][23][24][25] 
On the date the deal was announced, CBS Corporation and Fox Television 
Stations announced a long-term deal in which WPWR would become the CW affiliate 
for the Chicago market once WGN disaffiliates from the network. This would 
mark the first time a station currently owned by Fox chose to affiliate 
with The CW while under the group's ownership, and the second time that 
Fox would own a CW-affiliated station (it had operated Charlotte sister 
station WJZY as a CW affiliate for approximately 3½ months after the closure 
of its purchase of that station from Capitol Broadcasting Company in April 
2013, as Charlotte's previous Fox affiliate WCCB's contract with the network 
did not expire until July 1 of that year).[26][27] At the time the announcement 
was made, there was no mention of MyNetworkTV moving to another station. 
WPWR instead retained the programming service as a secondary affiliation, 
airing between 10:00 pm–12:00 am, similar to sister-station KCOP-TV in 
Los Angeles, which has done since 2015 for newsmagazine programming. Chicago 
is the largest market where The CW and MyNetworkTV share a primary channel 
affiliation on a single station (a title that was previously held by Columbia, 
South Carolina, where WKTC carries the programming service – of which it 
had been an exclusive affiliate before joining The CW in March 2014 – immediately 
following the CW prime time lineup weekday evenings).[24] It is also the 
first time a network owned-and-operated station airs its own network as 
a secondary affiliation. In addition, when it took over the affiliation 
from WGN-TV, WPWR superseded Sunbeam Television-owned WLVI in Boston (a 
former sister station of WGN under Tribune ownership from 1994 to 2006) 
as the largest CW station that is not owned by either Tribune Media or 
CBS Corporation (the latter's television station subsidiary, CBS Television 
Stations, owns WBBM-TV (channel 2), which is the largest CBS owned-and-operated 
station that is not operated as part of a duopoly). On July 11, 2016, WPWR-TV 
unveiled its CW-standardized logo in a "Make the CWitch" promotional video.[28] 
The station's digital channel is multiplexed: WPWR-TV maintains a Mobile 
DTV feed of its main channel on 50.1 (labelled "WPWR"), as well as a mobile 
simulcast of sister station WFLD (labelled "WPWR"). Broadcasting at 3.67 
Mbit/s, it is the highest bitrate of any Chicago television station's mobile 
feed.[30][31] With the switch to The CW, it is unknown if WPWR will convert 
their main signal to the CW's preferred 1080i resolution or remain in 720p. 
WPWR-TV shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 50, on June 12, 2009, 
the official date in which full-power television stations in the United 
States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. 
The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 
51.[32] Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the 
station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 50. WPWR-TV 
airs the entire CW network schedule as well as the network's educational 
programming block One Magnificent Morning and the daytime The Robert Irvine 
Show; in addition, the station delays the MyNetworkTV programming schedule 
to an hour which bookends the program Harry aired at the 9:00 p.m. hour. 
Syndicated programs broadcast on WPWR-TV (as of September 2016[update]) 
include The Big Bang Theory, Family Feud, Harry, The Dr. Oz Show, and The 
Simpsons.[33] Occasionally as time permits, WPWR may air Fox network programs 
whenever WFLD is unable to in the event of extended breaking news or severe 
weather coverage. In certain instances, WPWR may also interrupt regularly 
scheduled programming to simulcast live breaking news coverage, whether 
from WFLD or from Fox News. WPWR is the only major television station in 
the Chicago market that has never aired local news programming of any kind. 
Starting with the 2008 season, WPWR obtained broadcast rights to games 
from the Major League Soccer franchise Chicago Fire S.C. In September 2009, 
the station acquired the partial local television rights to broadcast American 
Hockey League games involving the Chicago Wolves, carrying games to which 
Comcast Network 100 did not hold rights.[34][35][35] The over-the-air Wolves 
telecasts moved to independent station WMEU-CD (channel 48) in 2013.[36][37] 
Through WFLD's April 2008 programming agreement with the team, WPWR carries 
select preseason games and other team-related programming from the Chicago 
Bears (including the feature/interview program Inside the Bears).[38][39][40] 
Through an agreement with Tribune Broadcasting, WPWR became a tertiary 
outlet for the Chicago Cubs and Chicago White Sox beginning in the 2015 
season, broadcasting occasional telecasts of the two teams' Major League 
Baseball games that are produced by WGN-TV (through its WGN Sports programming 
unit), due to that station's network affiliation contracts with The CW 
that limit the number of programming preemptions that WGN-TV is allowed 
on an annual basis (these telecasts were previously seen on WCIU-TV, which 
discontinued its overflow agreement with WGN as a result of the January 
12, 2015 launch of a primetime newscast produced by ABC owned-and-operated 
station WLS-TV, channel 7).[41] This agreement ended after WPWR assumed 
The CW affiliation from WGN; with WGN reverting to independent, it no longer 
had network-mandated preemption restrictions forcing it to move sports 
