WPXI, channel 11, is an NBC-affiliated television station located in Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, United States. The station is owned by the Cox Media Group, 
a subsidiary of Atlanta-based Cox Enterprises. WPXI's offices and studios 
are located on Evergreen Road in the Summer Hill neighborhood of Pittsburgh, 
and its transmitter is located on Television Hill in the Fineview section 
of the city, on the site of the station's original studio location. On 
cable, WPXI is carried on Comcast channels 12 (channel 10 in Bethel Park) 
(standard definition) and 811 (high definition), and Verizon FiOS channels 
11 (standard definition) and 511 (high definition). On September 1, 1957, 
Pittsburgh's second commercial VHF station signed on as WIIC. The station's 
construction permit was originally issued by the Federal Communications 
Commission (FCC) in June 1955 to WIIC Incorporated – a joint venture of 
the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, which owned WWSW radio (970 AM, now WBGG), 
and Pittsburgh Radio Supply House, the then-owners of WJAS radio (1320 
AM).[2] Both radio stations had competed individually for the permit grant 
along with other applicants. CBS, which was looking to gain its own full-time 
affiliate in the market, signed a contract with the then-unnamed channel 
11 shortly thereafter.[3] Before the "freeze" on television station licenses, 
the two stations were competing for the channel 10 license originally assigned 
to Pittsburgh before the FCC reallocated the channels in 1952, with channel 
10 going to Altoona; the Hearst Corporation (then-owners of WCAE and eventual 
owners of WTAE-TV) and two other companies were also applying for the channel 
10 license.[4] Channel 11, however, did not sign on for well over two years 
after its permit was granted. The primary reason for the delay was on the 
part of WENS-TV (channel 16, now WINP-TV), whose application for the permit 
had been denied and later contested the FCC's original decision.[5] In 
the interim, CBS continued to have most of its programs cleared by Westinghouse-owned 
KDKA-TV (channel 2), at the time Pittsburgh's only commercial VHF station. 
When CBS decided to make KDKA-TV its full-time Pittsburgh affiliate, NBC 
(who shared time on KDKA-TV with CBS, ABC, and station founder DuMont since 
its sign-on in 1949) reached a deal to affiliate with WIIC.[6] Also, as 
a condition of the license grant, WJAS radio had to be sold; NBC wound 
up purchasing that station in August 1957.[7] The WJAS interests later 
divested their 50 percent share of WIIC to another local broadcaster.[8] 
Bill Cardille signed the station on the air. In addition to Cardille, five 
other announcers that were with the station when it launched in 1957 include 
Mal Alberts, Bob Cochran, Ed Conway, Len Johnson and Mark Schaefer. Some 
of the first original programming to air on WIIC included Studio Wrestling 
and Chiller Theatre, both hosted by Cardille. Shortly after its sign-on, 
WIIC was briefly affiliated with the NTA Film Network, sharing the affiliation 
with KDKA-TV, WTAE-TV, and public television station WQED.[9] In 1964, 
WIIC was sold to current owner Cox Enterprises; Cox subsequently traded 
its share in the then new cable system (today's Buckeye CableSystem) in 
Toledo, Ohio to the Post-Gazette's parent company Block Communications, 
which is based in Toledo.[10][11] The station has been the longest running 
NBC affiliate under Cox's ownership, especially after its sister stations 
in Charlotte and Atlanta switched their affiliations to ABC in 1978 and 
1980, respectively. In 1970, WIIC made Pittsburgh broadcasting history 
when Eleanor Schano became the first woman to anchor a newscast solo. Schano 
also hosted a weekly 30-minute public affairs program called Face to Face. 
During much of the 1970s, WIIC trailed in a distant third place in the 
ratings behind KDKA-TV and WTAE-TV. This coincided with much of the period 
where NBC also struggled in the ratings. In 1970, when the Pittsburgh Steelers 
moved to the American Football Conference after the NFL merger, channel 
11 became the station of record for the team; this partnership continued 
through 1997. Even though it aired most of the games from the Steelers' 
glory years of the 1970s—typically the highest-rated television programs 
in the market during that time—channel 11 stayed in the ratings basement. 
Around 1975, Channel 11 branded itself as "e11even". Around 1977, WIIC 
used the "11 Alive" moniker (which had become popularized by fellow NBC 
affiliate WXIA-TV in Atlanta and WPIX in New York City). WIIC carried the 
Operation Prime Time package in 1979.[12] On April 20, 1981, the station's 
call sign was changed to WPXI (for "Pittsburgh 11", with XI being the Roman 
numeral for 11).[13] Although the station has officially never had the 
-TV suffix since adopting the WPXI call sign, the station has on occasion 
been marketed as WPXI-TV. The WIIC calls in Pittsburgh were later used 
by a low-powered independent station that ran a music video format (that 
station is currently silent). WPXI joined the ad hoc TV network, MGM/UA 
Premiere Network, with the November 10, 1984 showing of Clash of the Titans.[14] 
WPXI also televised the Jerry Lewis MDA Telethon as the Love Network affiliate 
of the annual event for the Pittsburgh market, until the Muscular Dystrophy 
Association decided to move the telethon from syndication to ABC in 2013. 
The local portion of the telethon continued to be hosted by Bill Cardille 
until the 2012 telethon. In 2000, Cox Enterprises purchased WTOV in Steubenville, 
Ohio and WJAC-TV in Johnstown, Pennsylvania from Sunrise Television. Those 
stations – which are also NBC affiliates – often appear in channel lineups 
for the same viewers that watch WPXI, either by over-the-air signal or 
via cable provider, and due to the proximity of the three stations to each 
other (as well as the common affiliation with NBC), were occasionally marketed 
together as a result. Cox changed the stations' on-air appearances to match 
WPXI's look, despite WPXI changing its own look in 2004. WTOV still used 
WPXI's former look until October 2010, and WJAC-TV adopted WPXI's current 
design in October 2011. Over the Labor Day weekend of 2007, WPXI began 
relocating from its longtime studios at Television Hill in Pittsburgh's 
Fineview neighborhood after 50 years, to a new studio facility in the city's 
Summer Hill neighborhood near the Parkway North. The station's transmitter 
tower continues to be located in the Fineview neighborhood.[15] WPXI began 
broadcasting its newscasts from the Summer Hill studio on October 6 beginning 
with the 6 p.m. newscast. In turn, it also became the first station in 
the Pittsburgh market to begin broadcasting its local newscasts in high 
definition. The station was criticized for technical glitches during the 
initial week of the new system run.[16][17] With the switch to HD came 
a new set, created by FX Group and a new graphics package designed by Hothaus 
Creative. In mid-October 2008, WPXI, in collaboration with Cox's longtime 
partner Internet Broadcasting, launched a redesigned website. By early 
November 2008, the websites of all of Cox's stations east of the Mississippi 
River began using the new format pioneered by WPXI; the websites of the 
company's stations west of the Mississippi River followed suit a month 
later. In 2011, Cox Media Group's partnership with Internet Broadcasting 
was dissolved, and the Cox television stations relaunched their website 
operations in-house. WPXI's and WSOC-TV's websites remained under the stewardship 
of Internet Broadcasting until late January 2012, when they became the 
last two stations to have redesigned their websites to match the format 
of the in-house web operations of their sister stations. With Cox Media 
Group's February 23, 2013 sale of WJAC and WTOV (a sale which also included 
stations in El Paso, Texas and Reno, Nevada) to the Sinclair Broadcast 
Group, owners of local Fox affiliate WPGH-TV and MyNetworkTV affiliate 
WPMY (which was completed on May 2[18]), WPXI is now Cox's only remaining 
NBC-affiliated station. The two remain connected to WPXI under a news-share 
agreement it has had with WPGH-TV. WPXI currently uses the number 11 drawn 
into a circle, which debuted in 1987. The "11" symbol is colored gold, 
while the box around it is dark blue. WPXI previously used the NBC Peacock 
in its logo, which was copied by sister stations WTOV and WJAC and is still 
used by WTOV, but revamped its own look in October 2004. WPXI's current 
look uses the circle 11 logo with a stylized "WPXI" below it. On September 
2, 2013, WPXI expanded its noon news to an hour, becoming Pittsburgh's 
first hour-long noon newscast.[19] Although it has closed the gap with 
Pittsburgh's other stations, WPXI remains one of NBC's weakest major-market 
affiliates, due in no small part due to the stations's delays in signing 
on in its early years after established NBC affiliates in nearby markets 
(its sister stations as well as WFMJ-TV in Youngstown, Ohio, all of which 
have been decades-long market leaders in their respective markets) as well 
as NBC's issues with Westinghouse in the 1950s.[20] NBC did come close 
to upgrading its affiliation in Pittsburgh in 1994 when Westinghouse was 
looking to sign a group-wide affiliation deal for its Group W stations. 
Due to Hearst Television (owner of WTAE-TV) and Sinclair Broadcast Group 
(owner of WPGH-TV) each having strong ties to ABC and Fox, respectively, 
WPXI would've likely affiliated with CBS had Westinghouse signed with NBC, 
effectively reversing what would've likely been the originally-intended 
affiliations had channel 11 not had a delay in signing-on. Ultimately, 
Westinghouse signed with CBS (despite NBC offering more money), and WPXI 
remained with NBC, making the Pittsburgh market one of the few major markets 
not to be affected by the 1994 United States broadcast TV realignment.[21][22] 
From 1963 to 1983, the station produced and broadcast Chiller Theater, 
a late Saturday evening horror film show hosted by Bill Cardille, or as 
he was referred to, "Chilly Billy." The show originally had Cardille as 
a solo host. In the 1970s, a cast of characters was added, and the setting 
was changed from a laboratory to a castle. Cardille would introduce the 
film being shown, as well as perform skits during breaks in the film. Cardille 
became well known for hosting the show and the shows themselves became 
part of local yore. The final program aired on January 1, 1984. Cardille 
remained on-air at WPXI through the early-to-mid-1990s as the weekday morning 
and noon weather forecaster. Cardille remains in Pittsburgh as midday personality 
on WJAS radio, and occasional Chiller Theater reunions have been held over 
the years. The show was part of a trend during the 1960s and 1970s for 
television stations to produce local programming. Local stations often 
created their own children's shows as well. Horror theater shows, such 
as Shock Theatre, hosted by Ghoulardi and Big Chuck & Little John in Cleveland, 
as well as Chiller Theater, were not only easy to produce, but popular 
with the local audience. From 1966 to 1972, WIIC had a Bandstand-type show 
on Saturday afternoons. Come Alive was originally sponsored by Pepsi and 
hosted by KQV disc jockey Chuck Brinkman. Later, WIXZ DJ Terry Lee would 
take over as host. The show featured teens dancing to current hit records, 
a weekly Top 10 countdown and appearances by local bands. From the earliest 
days of the station through 1973, WIIC produced a weekly live wrestling 
show. Studio Wrestling, independent of the National Wrestling Alliance, 
which aired on Saturday evenings and drew strong ratings. Mal Alberts was 
the original host, but Cardille took over after a few years and handled 
the rest of the show's run. It started as a one-hour show, but was then 
expanded to 90 minutes because of its popularity. The show marked the earliest 
appearances of Bruno Sammartino, who moved to Pittsburgh from Italy as 
a teenager and continues to reside in the area. Studio Wrestling was run 
by Toots Mondt, who co-owned NWA member Capitol Wrestling Corporation (the 
predecessor to the present-day WWE) with Vince McMahon, Sr. McMahon promptly 
signed Sammartino to the CWC and where Sammartino would eventually become 
a two-time WWWF Champion for a combined record of 11 years. WIIC/WPXI has 
not produced its own wrestling program since Studio Wrestling, although 
it has aired various WWF/WWE shows through its affiliation with NBC in 
the years since. WIIC also produced a daily afternoon game show, Give It 
a Whirl, from 1965 to 1967. Steve Rizen of KQV radio hosted the show, which 
had contestants spinning a wheel to determine what prizes they could win. 
Local musician Dom Trimarkie was part of the show, providing material for 
the "Mystery Tunes" segment. In regards to children's programming, WIIC 
produced Cartoon Colorama, which aired older cartoons produced in color 
(hence the name), hosted by Willie the Duck, a hand-puppet with a Donald 
Duck type of voice who spoke to off-camera announcer Don Riggs (who served 
as Willie's comedy foil) in between the cartoons. The show had been previously 
hosted by a character called "Captain Jim", who had hosted one of WIIC's 
best-remembered children's programs: Cap'n Jim's Popeye Club, built around 
Popeye cartoons. The Captain was briefly played at the beginning by the 
little-known Jim Saunders, and from 1959 on by Ted Eckman. The station 
also aired a local version of The Mickey Mouse Club during the 1960s, which 
was hosted by Williams. This station's digital channel is multiplexed: 
WPXI was the first station in Pittsburgh to make use of additional programming 
on its digital channels. On June 21, 2007, WPXI began carrying programming 
from NBC Weather Plus on digital subchannel 11.2.[24] The service, branded 
as WPXI 11 Weather Plus, offered local and national weather information 
24 hours a day. Locally, WPXI's Scott Harbaugh served as the main meteorologist 
on the station's Weather Plus service. WPXI added an airwave digital channel 
on 11.3 on October 15, 2007, when it began an affiliation with Retro Television 
Network.[25] Sister stations WJAC-TV and WTOV-TV also began offering RTV 
programming on their subchannels. Following the shutdown of NBC Weather 
Plus in December 2008, WPXI moved RTV to 11.2 while the 11.3 subchannel 
went dark. On June 13, 2011, WPXI replaced RTV with competing classic television 
network Me-TV.[26] While all three Pittsburgh news stations air news video 
on its websites with WTAE even airing full newscasts on its website, WPXI 
is the only station in the Pittsburgh market to have over-the-top content 
available on a streaming service, having its own dedicated channel on Roku. 
If someone within the WPXI viewing area orders a Roku Player, the WPXI 
News app is automatically installed on the player.[27] The WPXI-Roku partnership 
is part of a larger partnership between Roku and Cox-owned stations. On 
April 15, 2015, WPXI became a charter affiliate of Laff on channel 11.3, 
bringing 11.3 live again for the first time since NBC Weather Plus shut 
down.[28] WPXI shut down its analog signal, over VHF channel 11, on June 
12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in 
the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under 
federal mandate. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition 
UHF channel 48.[29] In July 2009, the station applied with the Federal 
Communications Commission (FCC) to operate three repeater signals: channel 
21 in Derry Township, channel 23 in Uniontown, and channel 33 in New Castle.[30] 
The signal in Derry Township is expected to cover all of Westmoreland County, 
while the Uniontown signal could penetrate into the Pittsburgh suburb of 
McKeesport. The New Castle signal might go into Youngstown, Ohio (which 
New Castle is much closer to despite being part of the Pittsburgh DMA) 
and serve as a secondary NBC affiliate for the Youngstown television market, 
which is primarily served by WFMJ-TV, while giving the Youngstown market 
an outlet for Me-TV. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers 
display the virtual channels of WPXI's main signal and its three repeaters 
as WPXI's former VHF analog channel 11. Since its sign-on in 1957, WIIC, 
and later WPXI, has aired a mix of syndicated first-run shows (Hee Haw, 
the 1971–82 version of The Lawrence Welk Show [one of the few NBC affiliates 
to carry the program] and To Tell The Truth), off-network series repeats 
(I Love Lucy, Petticoat Junction, Star Trek and The Cosby Show) and afternoon 
movies throughout its history, although by the 1980s the schedule would 
become less dependent on most of this product in favor of more talk fare 
and an expanding newscast. In the late 1990s, WPXI was known as one of 
the "Big 3" stations in the Pittsburgh area to air popular tabloid talk 
shows in their late morning and afternoon daytime lineup. In 1998, several 
stations that carried The Jerry Springer Show, including WPXI, refused 
to carry the episode "I Married A Horse", which led to it being pulled 
before airing. However, by 1999, WPXI wanted to move away from a tabloid 
format to a hard-hitting news and lifestyle platform. In September 1999, 
WPXI dropped Jenny Jones, which moved to WNPA, and Jerry Springer moved 
from its rating success news-lead-in 4 p.m. timeslot in exchanging for 
upgrading Judge Judy in addition to concerns of content before moving to 
WPGH and its sister station WCWB in 2001 where it would now air twice a 
day. By 2002, WPXI would replace their daytime lineup with new youth oriented 
game shows. In 2007, The Megan Mullally Show was dropped only after nearly 
three months and moved to WPMY before its nationwide cancellation months 
later. Another show that was removed from WPXI's schedule within its first 
season was The Bonnie Hunt Show, which (despite high ratings) the station 
decided to drop at the start of the show's second season in favor of Who 
Wants to Be a Millionaire (the talk show ended up on WPMY). In September 
2014, WPXI acquired Rachael Ray from WTAE-TV after going back and forth 
at its 10 a.m. time slot on the station since its 2006 debut.[31][32] The 
show now takes up the 11 a.m. timeslot, serving as a lead-in to Channel 
11 News at Noon.[33] WPXI was the first station to offer a 5:30 p.m. newscast 
in Pittsburgh from 1981 to 1984 (titled 5:30 Live); it was then revived 
in 1987 with the name Channel 11 News First Edition. It was also the first 
station to offer a 5 p.m. newscast in the early 1990s, titled Channel 11 
News First at 5. WPXI dropped NBC's Saturday morning cartoons in September 
1990 in favor of a running a newscast airing from 8:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. 
The success of the weekend morning newscast prompted NBC network officials 
to extend the Today show to weekends. WPXI, however, has since scaled back 
the length of its weekend morning newscasts. Pittsburgh native Jodi Applegate 
co-anchored NBC's Weekend Today, but was never seen locally due to WPXI's 
weekend morning newscasts. WPXI added "Weekend Today" in September 2012. 
On January 12, 2006, Sinclair Broadcast Group (owner of Fox affiliate WPGH-TV) 
and WPXI entered into a news share agreement allowing channel 11 to take 
over production of WPGH's 10 p.m. newscast. WPXI began producing a 10 p.m. 
newscast for that station (titled Channel 11 News on Fox 53 at Ten) on 
January 30, 2006, two weeks after WPGH shut down its in-house news department 
due to corporate cutbacks made by Sinclair at its news-producing stations. 
All of WPGH's news staff, except for sportscaster Alby Oxenreiter, were 
laid off. The program runs for 45 minutes on Sunday through Friday nights, 
and for 30 minutes on Saturdays; a sports highlight show titled Ox on Fox 
Sports Extra (hosted by Oxenreiter) fills the remaining 15 minutes of the 
newscast Sunday through Fridays. WPXI is known to commission its own theme 
music from various composers, although it has previously used the famous 
"Move Closer to Your World" theme by Al Ham that was popularized by ABC 
O&O WPVI-TV in Philadelphia (though it did commission a modernized version 
of the theme used during the 1990s). It has commissioned "Total Coverage" 
(its previous package), and after WPXI moved to its new Summer Hill television 
building, it started using the Tower V.2, ending the NBC Collection altogether. 
The station went into cable television on January 1, 1994, with the launch 
of the Pittsburgh Cable News Channel (PCNC). PCNC produced the first 10 
p.m. newscast in the Pittsburgh market. The final installment of PCNC's 
10 p.m. newscast aired on January 26, 2006 as WPXI took over production 
of WPGH-TV's 10 p.m. newscast. Over the past decade, Pittsburgh has been 
a perennially competitive market for local news, with news ratings usually 
differing by less than a full ratings point. More recently, however, WPXI 
has had an increase in most dayparts, although it continues maintain a 
tie with KDKA-TV in the market for daytime news, as of the May 2009 Nielsen 
ratings period. Also during this period, WPXI had in increase during the 
morning hours and the WPXI-produced 10 p.m. news remained in first place. 
From 1997 to 1999, WPXI lead #1 ahead of WTAE-TV and KDKA-TV in viewership 
for the 5:00 p.m. newscast due to lead-in by early fringe talk show, The 
Jerry Springer Show at 4 p.m. As of May 2010, WPXI has a strong lead with 
viewers in the 5-6 a.m. and 10 p.m. timeslots. However, WPXI had the least-watched 
newscasts in Pittsburgh at noon, 4:00, 5:00, 6:00, and 11:00 p.m. (with 
KDKA-TV being the highest watched during those timeslots, except for WTAE-TV 
which was the leader at 11 p.m. as of the February 2013 ratings period).[34] 
