WPXN-TV is the flagship station of the Ion Television network, formerly 
known as Pax TV and i. Licensed to New York City, the station broadcasts 
on UHF channel 31, and is owned and operated by Ion Media Networks. The 
City of New York, which was one of the United States' first municipalities 
to enter into broadcasting with the 1924 sign-on of WNYC radio, was granted 
a construction permit to build a new commercial television station in 1954.[1] 
Seven years later, on November 5, 1961, WUHF took to the air for the first 
time. Through the Municipal Broadcasting System, which held the channel 
31 license, the City (led by then-mayor Robert F. Wagner, Jr.) and the 
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) used WUHF as an experiment to determine 
the viability of ultra-high frequency (UHF) broadcasts within an urban 
environment.[2][3] Some of the early programming on WUHF included simulcasts 
of New York's existing commercial VHF stations; educational films produced 
by WNYC's Television Film Unit, established in 1949; college-level distance 
learning telecourses; and, reportedly, a nightly rundown of the New York 
City Police Department's "wanted" criminals list. The experiment was carried 
out through the installation of UHF receivers in several hundred test homes, 
public schools and businesses, with reception monitored by FCC and City 
engineers. After a year of test broadcasting was deemed successful, full 
control of WUHF was then transferred to the City. The station became a 
full-time operation on November 5, 1962, with new call letters WNYC-TV 
to match its sister radio stations WNYC (then at 830 AM and now at 820 
AM) and WNYC-FM (93.9 MHz).[4] (NOTE: The WUHF call sign is now residing 
on a station that is also on channel 31, the Fox affiliate in Rochester, 
New York.) Though the channel 31 license was classified as commercial, 
WNYC-TV was operated as a non-commercial station. Some of the programming 
from the experimental period continued, and now included live broadcasts 
of the United Nations' General Assembly meetings. As a municipally-owned 
station, WNYC-TV also devoted airtime to shows focused on civic affairs, 
along with other public-interest programs. The station also carried some 
programming from National Educational Television (NET) and its successor, 
the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS), but later increasingly ran more 
independent educational television programs. For many years WNYC-TV ran 
a 15-minute newscast on weekdays, called News from City Hall (later called 
News City and expanded to 30 minutes), highlighting the day's events in 
municipal government. In 1979, Mayor Ed Koch considered selling the WNYC 
stations to other interests due to a municipal fiscal crisis. Instead, 
the WNYC Foundation was established as an outlet to raise operating capital 
for the stations. Though there were bi-annual fundraising appeals made 
by the WNYC stations, WNYC-TV did not run on-air pledge drives in a manner 
similar to other PBS stations, mostly because it was a commercial licensee. 
It would not, however, have faced any problems had it done so, as WNED-TV 
in Buffalo, New York operated for decades as a non-commercial broadcaster 
under a commercial license. Channel 31 also leased blocks of airtime to 
foreign-language broadcasters. In the 1980s, among the largest providers 
of foreign programming were Japan's Fujisankei Communications Group, which 
aired a morning show on weekdays, and RAI, the Italian public broadcaster 
which programmed two hours on weeknights, and five hours on Sunday mornings, 
a period which included airings of Italian soccer games. Also during this 
era, WNYC-TV joined the music video phenomenon – and in the process contributed 
to the growth of hip hop culture and rap music. In the summer of 1983, 
channel 31 premiered the hour-long Video Music Box, created by station 
employee Ralph McDaniels. The program started off with an eclectic selection 
of videos from pop, rock, and rhythm-and-blues artists. Rap music was also 
included, but eventually the program became exclusive to the rap and R&B 
genres. Video Music Box served as a launching pad for many rap music artists, 
and was said to have been the basis behind MTV creating Yo! MTV Raps several 
years later. Video Music Box would remain prominently on WNYC-TV's schedule 
for the next decade (the show now airs on WNYE-TV). Shortly after becoming 
mayor in 1994, Rudolph W. Giuliani disclosed that he was considering selling 
the WNYC stations. Giuliani believed that broadcasting was no longer essential 
as a municipal entity, and that any financial compensation would be used 
to help the City cover budget shortfalls.[5] The final decision was made 
in March 1995: the WNYC radio stations would be sold to the WNYC Foundation, 
while the City opted to solicit separate bids for WNYC-TV through a blind 
auction.[6] A partnership of Dow Jones and Company and ITT Corporation 
won the WNYC-TV auction with a bid of US$207 million, which at the time 
was the largest price ever paid for a UHF television station.[7] The sale 
of channel 31 to commercial interests had many detractors. Foreign broadcasters 
complained, as they now found themselves without an outlet for their programming, 
and individual financial contributors criticized the Giuliani administration 
for selling the station to the highest commercial bidder, rather than to 
the WNYC Foundation.[8] The foreign producers found new outlets through 
WNYE-TV, Newton, New Jersey-based WMBC-TV, and the City-owned Crosswalks 
cable TV network (now nyctv), and eventually dispersed among the many low 
power television stations launched in the late 90s and early 2000s, and 
currently through various digital subchannels both on full and low-power 
stations in the Tri-State. The sale took nearly a year to become official, 
and at midnight, June 30, 1996, WNYC-TV signed off for the final time.[9] 
Twelve hours later, at Noon on July 1, channel 31 reappeared as WBIS-TV 
(branded as S+), carrying programming from the Classic Sports Network most 
of the day, and infomercials in overnights. Meanwhile, Dow Jones and ITT 
worked on their planned permanent format for WBIS, which would offer business 
news during the day and professional sports news and games at night. The 
new format would launch in January 1997, with business news from Dow Jones 
(anchored by New York news veteran Tony Guida and future Fox News Channel 
anchor Martha MacCallum) running from 6 am to 6 pm and sports programming 
running from 6 pm to 6 am. ITT, then co-owners of Madison Square Garden 
(and the teams that played in the venue) with Cablevision, offered the 
team coverage with the New York Knicks and New York Rangers. WBIS-TV was 
also slated to carry some games of the New York Islanders, New Jersey Devils, 
and New Jersey Nets (all of which aired on Cablevision-owned SportsChannel 
New York), and in fact did air at least one game from each of the three 
teams. Some Classic Sports Network programming remained on weekends and 
on evenings when there was no live sports coverage, and infomercials continued 
in overnights. There was some talk that WBIS would secure broadcast rights 
for the New York Yankees, but that team opted to remain with WPIX for the 
1997 season. It also became a de facto affiliate of Fox Sports Net, since 
at the time FSN didn't have an outlet in New York; by fall 1998 Cablevision 
had converted its' SportsChannel Networks to FSN, including SportsChannel 
New York. WBIS carried FSN programs and events such as Big 12 Conference 
and Pacific-10 Conference sports, weekly Thursday night baseball games, 
and Fox Sports News, as well as shows from the then young Outdoor Life 
Network and Speedvision networks on weekends. The WBIS hybrid format, though 
ambitious, was a complete dud as the station failed to attract both viewers 
or advertising revenue. In May 1997, ITT sold its share of the station, 
as well as its half of Madison Square Garden, in an effort to resist a 
hostile takeover attempt by the Hilton Hotels Corporation. Dow Jones continued 
to run the station alone, but within weeks decided it could no longer support 
the losses and looked to sell out. Paxson Communications, which owned several 
UHF stations nationwide, purchased WBIS for $225 million, topping the 1995 
sale price by $18 million. The hybrid format was taken off the air in June, 
though reruns of WBIS' business programming, some Fox Sports programming, 
and documentaries from the CBS cable presence "Eye on People" (another 
network which struggled through its short life) ran in the interim. Paxson 
took control of the station in August, renaming it as WPXN-TV, and ran 
channel 31 under a local marketing agreement with a format that featured 
Bloomberg Business News in daytime, infomercials (from Paxson's inTV) and 
religious programs (from Paxson's Worship Network) the rest of the day. 
The LMA was necessary as Paxson was seeking FCC permission to temporarily 
keep both WPXN and WHAI-TV (channel 43) in Bridgeport, Connecticut. The 
FCC eventually granted Paxson a temporary waiver for the purchase of WPXN, 
which closed on March 6, 1998. A year later, Paxson sold the Bridgeport 
station to other interests. On August 31, 1998, WPXN, along with the rest 
of the Paxson stations, premiered the new Pax television network, with 
a programming mix of infomercials, off-network reruns labeled as "family 
entertainment", and the Worship Network during overnights. NBC purchased 
a 32 percent stake in Pax in 1999, and as part of the deal NBC encouraged 
its stations, both owned and affiliated, to enter into joint sales agreements 
with the local Pax outlet. In New York, WNBC-TV did just that with WPXN, 
and as a result channel 31 aired rebroadcasts of WNBC-TV's evening newscasts. 
The LMA arrangements ended in July 2005, though NBC retains its ownership 
share in the network to the present day. On September 11, 2001, the transmitter 
facilities of channel 31, as well as six other New York City television 
stations and several radio stations, were destroyed when two hijacked airplanes 
crashed into and destroyed the World Trade Center towers. When WPXN-TV 
returned to the air days later, channel 31 was broadcasting at low power 
from a temporary facility in West Orange, New Jersey. It has since moved 
its transmitter to the Empire State Building. In July 2005, Pax TV changed 
its name to "i", and on January 29, 2007, the network became Ion Television. 
Like most Ion stations, WPXN then ran infomercials until 6 pm daily, except 
for some religious shows on weekday mornings and Sunday mornings, along 
with some educational shows from qubo on Friday afternoons, and Ion's collection 
of mostly-off-network reruns filling the primetime portion of the schedule 
plus one public affairs show, ION New York City. WPXU-LD, channel 12 in 
Amityville, New York, relays WPXN-TV. This service began operation on or 
about May 2, 2011. It replaced WPXU-LP, an analog station on channel 38 
that went dark some years earlier after its channel was reallocated to 
the digital signal of WWOR-TV. On December 15, 2014, Ion reached a deal 
to donate WPXU-LD to Word of God Fellowship, parent company of the Daystar 
network.[10] WPXO-LP, channel 34 in East Orange, New Jersey, relayed WPXN-TV 
until it was sold in August 2007.[11] It is now an affiliate of Spanish-language 
network MundoMax. WPXN-TV also has a Mobile DTV feed of subchannel 31.2, 
labelled "WPXN Ion Media", broadcasting at 1.83 Mbit/s.[13][14] WPXN-TV 
discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over UHF channel 
31, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from 
analog to digital television.[15] The station's digital signal relocated 
from its pre-transition UHF channel 30 to channel 31 for post-transition 
