Since purchasing the Chicago Cubs baseball team and Wrigley Field in 2009, 
the Ricketts family have been pursuing an extensive renovation of the stadium 
and the surrounding venue. The 1060 Project (so called after Wrigley Field's 
Addison Street address) is projected to cost $575 million and will be completed 
in four phases during consecutive off-seasons.[1] Funding will be generated 
from advertising revenue and increased corporate sponsorship in the form 
of additional signage placed in and around the stadium. The initial plan, 
revealed during the annual Cubs Convention in January 2013, called for 
a $575-million, privately funded rehabilitation of the stadium to be completed 
over the course of five years.[2] The proposal included improvements to 
the stadium's facade, infrastructure, restrooms, concourses, suites, press 
box, bullpens, and clubhouses, as well as the addition of restaurants, 
patio areas, batting tunnels, a 5,700-square-foot jumbotron, and an adjacent 
hotel, plaza, and office-retail complex.[3] Months of negotiations between 
the team, local Alderman Tom Tunney, and Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel followed 
with the eventual endorsements of the city's Landmarks Commission and the 
Plan Commission and final approval by the Chicago City Council in July 
2013.[4] The 1060 Project plan includes structural work to prepare the 
stadium for enhancements and improvements over the 5 year term of the construction 
plan. Specifically, improved player facilities, new fan amenities, outfield 
signage, expanded concessions, new and improved restroom facilities and 
the improvement and expansion of the left and right field bleachers are 
planned. The basic concepts of the project are historic preservation, connectivity/technology, 
and sustainability. Carl Rice, vice president of restoration and expansion, 
described the project as "bringing the ballpark into the future...without 
changing a thing." [5] Increased advertising signage, in and around the 
park, will help to fund the four phases of the renovation. Before the renovation 
began, the majority of the rooftop club owners that surround the stadium 
felt that such signs would obstruct their sightlines and render them out 
of business.[6][7] Prior to 1980, the rooftops provided a vantage point 
and were a gathering place for free views of the ongoing Cubs games. Since 
the observers were a few dozen people watching from the flat rooftops and 
windows of the buildings, with "seating" consisting of a few folding chairs, 
there was little commercial impact on the Cubs. When the popularity of 
the Cubs began to rise in the 1980s, formal seating structures began to 
appear, and building owners began charging admission, much to the displeasure 
of Cubs management, who saw it as an unreasonable encroachment.[citation 
needed] In 2002, the Cubs filed a lawsuit against the different facilities 
for copyright infringement. In 2004, 11 of the 13 roofs settled with the 
club, out of court, agreeing to pay 17% of gross revenue in exchange for 
official endorsement.[8] With the Cubs and the neighbors reaching agreement, 
many of the facilities erected permanent seating structures: some with 
bleachers, some with chair seats, and even one with a steel-girdered double 
deck of seats. By 2014, 15 of those buildings' structures that were once 
residential apartments had evolved into rooftop businesses with state-of-the-art 
multi-level facilities solely and exclusively used to sell tickets for 
a bird's eye views into the stadium to watch a Cubs game. Before work on 
the project began, the team wanted the rooftop owners to agree not to pursue 
legal action challenging the construction and continued to negotiate privately 
with them – offering to reduce the size and number of signs to be built 
– in order to gain their assent.[9] The rooftop owners had a lease with 
the team until 2023 in exchange for paying 17% of the gross revenues. Unable 
to reach an agreement with the rooftop owners by May 2014, the Cubs said 
that they would pursue the original 2013 plan to modify the park.[10] In 
the early months of 2015, the Ricketts family purchased three of the rooftop 
properties.[11] In the middle of the 2015 season, they purchased three 
more.[12] The five-year renovation project, projected to cost $575 million, 
started as soon as the 2014 season was completed.[13] Prior to the start 
of the 2015 season, both left and right field bleachers were expanded and 
the stadium was extended further onto both Waveland Avenue to the north 
and Sheffield Avenue to the east. Seven new outfield signs were installed 
along with a 2,400-square-foot video scoreboard in right field. Construction 
was begun on new locker rooms and lounges to exist in an underground area 
that was excavated along Clark Street to the west.[14] In an effort to 
preserve the past while at the same time modernizing for the future, the 
Cubs engaged DAIQ Architects, a company with experience in modernizing 
Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts, Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, and Turner Field in Atlanta, Georgia. T. Gunny Harboe of 
Harboe Architects, a historic preservation architect who worked on the 
Rookery Building and Sullivan Center in the Chicago Loop, was selected 
to be the architect in charge of preserving the historic features and 1930s 
characteristics of the ballpark. VOA Associates, which helped design the 
new Navy Pier, provided construction drawings and Icon Venue Group is the 
project management company.[15] The parking lots are the future location 
of Triangle Plaza and the Cubs' new office building. Structural steel and 
concrete work continued throughout the stadium complex during the 2015 
season with the addition of new concession areas and restroom facilities, 
outfield group terraces and a reworked third-base side concourse.[16] Wrigley 
Field has distinct outfield walls which are covered by a combination of 
Boston ivy and Japanese bittersweet.[17] The ivy was planted 79 years ago 
in 1937, having been an idea of future MLB owner Bill Veeck years earlier.[18] 
Due to delays caused by cold weather and construction restrictions, the 
renovations in left and center field were delayed until May 11 while the 
right-field bleachers were finished in mid-June. [19] Attendance during 
the opening weeks of the 2015 season was affected by the unavailability 
of approximately 5,000 bleacher seats. The announced crowd for the home 
opener against the St. Louis Cardinals was 35,055 while the second game 
of the series drew 26,814.[20] Prior to the renovation, seating capacity 
for Wrigley Field was 41,160.[21] [22] Work continued throughout the summer 
of 2015 on the foundation and structural work for the Cubs' new clubhouse 
and office building as well as an open-air plaza and retail space. The 
excavation for the future home of the 30,000-square-foot Cubs' clubhouse 
and new office building was completed in July. Work will continue during 
the off-season and the completed clubhouse should be ready by Opening Day 
of the 2016 season.[needs update] Support columns for a six-story office 
building, which will house the Cubs' administrative offices and a ground-floor 
retail space, have been installed and the building is expected to be completed 
by late 2016.[23] After the close of the extended 2015 season, work began 
to convert the excavated area just west of the field into a 30,000-square-foot 
area for players' locker rooms, strength, conditioning, training and hydrotherapy 
sections, players' lounges, a media center and team offices. The previous 
clubhouse space will be utilized to enlarge the dugout and add two underground 
batting cages, an auditorium and more team office space. Premium and season 
ticket holders will be afforded a new "Third Base Club" next to the batting 
tunnels and a "Home Plate Club" will be introduced behind home plate. All 
seats, from the left-field foul pole to the main gate, will be removed 
and replaced and new concessions and bathrooms will be added. An upper-deck 
exposed concourse will be added along the south and west roof-line of right 
field. Improved bathroom facilities and additional concessions are included.[24] 
On November 2, 2015, workers began dismantling the marquee and relocating 
it for renovation and refurbishment. The marquee had been in place since 
1933.[25] The marquee was returned on April 5, 2016. The statue of famed 
broadcaster Harry Caray was returned to the promenade outside the center 
field gate. The statues of Hall of Famers Ron Santo and Billy Williams 
were returned to the corner of Addison and Sheffield by the right field 
entrance. The Ernie Banks statue was placed at the Main entrance at the 
corner of Addison and Clark.[26] Upon the conclusion of game five of the 
2016 World Series, off season construction preparations were begun for 
implementing the third phase of the 5 year project. Placement of a chain 
link fence around the external ballpark wall was temporarily delayed to 
allow Cub fans to continue to express their joy with chalk drawings and 
comments (as they had throughout the playoffs and into the World Series). 
[27] In March 2015, just prior to the baseball season, Ricketts announced 
an additional year will be required to complete the 1060 project.[30] The 
completed project, including a Sheraton Hotel across from Wrigley on Clark 
and a plaza south of Clark and Waveland Avenue, is expected to be finished 
