Wrigley Rooftops is a generic name for the rooftops of residential buildings 
which have bleachers or seating on them to view baseball games or other 
major events at Wrigley Field. Since 1914,[1] Wrigley roofs have dotted 
the neighborhood of Wrigleyville around Wrigley Field, where the Chicago 
Cubs play Major League Baseball. Venues on Waveland Avenue overlook left 
field, while those along Sheffield Avenue have a view over right field. 
The rooftops had always been a gathering place for free views of the game, 
but until the 1980s, the observers were usually just a few dozen people 
watching from the flat rooftops, windows and porches of the buildings, 
with "seating" consisting of a few folding chairs, and with little commercial 
impact on the team. When the popularity of the Cubs began to rise in the 
1980s, formal seating structures began to appear, and building owners began 
charging admission, much to the displeasure of Cubs management, who saw 
it as an unreasonable encroachment. Various methods of combatting this 
phenomenon were discussed. The idea of a "spite fence", as with Shibe Park 
in Philadelphia, or the Cubs' previous home, West Side Park, was discussed. 
The idea was not implemented, nor was it fully abandoned. Before Opening 
Day in 2002, a "wind screen" was temporarily erected on the ballpark's 
back screen behind the outfield wall, obscuring some of the view from Wrigley 
roofs.[2] In 2002, the Cubs organization filed a lawsuit against the different 
facilities for copyright infringement. Since operators charge admission 
to use their amenities and sell licenses to view Major League Baseball, 
the Cubs asserted that the facilities were illegally using a copyrighted 
game and sued for royalties.[3] In 2004, 11 of the 13 roofs settled with 
the club out of court, agreeing to pay 17% of gross revenue in exchange 
for official endorsement.[4] The city also began investigating the structural 
integrity of the roofs, issuing citations to those in danger of collapse. 
With the Cubs and the neighbors reaching agreement, many of the facilities 
began to feature seating structures: some with bleachers, some with chair 
seats, and even one with a steel-girdered double deck of seats (see photo). 
The Cubs endorsed their "Official Rooftop Partners" on their team page 
at MLB.com.[5] The agreement was to last until 2023.[6] In 2013 principal 
owner Thomas S. Ricketts sought Commission on Chicago Landmarks permission 
to build "additional seating, new lighting, four additional LED signs of 
up to 650 square feet and a 2,400-square-foot video board in right field."[6] 
When the roof owners threatened to sue he tempered the design to just "a 
sign in right field and a video board in left field." After the roof owners 
did not rescind their threat to sue, Ricketts said in May 2014 that he 
would attempt to proceed with the original plan even if the matter was 
fought in court.[6] Ricketts said Wrigley has "the worst player facilities 
in Major League Baseball."[6] On January 20, 2015, the roof owners filed 
a lawsuit in federal court against the Cubs and Ricketts, citing breach 
of contract.[7] The Cubs began purchasing the rooftop properties in order 
to control the marketable sight lines into the stadium and by the end of 
the 2015 season, owned (or controlled via agreement) 12 of the 15 venues.[8][9] 
