WSB (750 AM) — branded News 95.5 and AM750, WSB — is a commercial radio 
station licensed to Atlanta, Georgia broadcasting a news/talk format. The 
station transmits with 50,000 watts of nondirectional power day and night, 
the highest power permitted for AM stations by the Federal Communications 
Commission (FCC). WSB is a clear-channel Class A station, according to 
the North American Regional Broadcasting Agreement (NARBA), signed by the 
U.S., Canada and Mexico. This enables WSB to be heard across a wide coverage 
area during nighttime hours, sometimes extending across the East Coast 
and Midwestern United States. It uses the slogan "Atlanta's news, weather, 
traffic, and Georgia Bulldogs station." The station is owned by, and is 
the AM flagship station for Cox Radio. WSB AM is the sister station to 
WSBB-FM 95.5, WSB-FM (B98.5FM), WALR-FM (Kiss 104.1), WSRV FM, (97-1 the 
River) and WSB-TV 2, all owned by Cox, which also owns the Atlanta Journal-Constitution 
newspaper. Although WSB is licensed to use the technology, it is not currently 
broadcasting in HD Radio. The digital radio system has apparently been 
turned off due to listener complaints of RF interference.[1] WSB programming 
has been simulcast on sister station WSBB-FM 95.5 since August 2010, giving 
listeners the opportunity to hear the station either on FM or AM. The station's 
studios and offices are located at the WSB Television and Radio Group building 
on West Peachtree Street in Midtown Atlanta, which is shared with its television 
and radio partners. The AM transmitter and radiating tower are located 
in Tucker, Georgia, seven miles northeast of Atlanta in the Northlake Tower 
Festival Shopping Center. The call sign "WSB" carried an infamous history 
before it was assigned to a land-based broadcaster in Atlanta. In the early 
days of radio licensing, ship-to-shore radio operations were included in 
the call sign assignment system. The first licensee of the call sign "WSB" 
was the SS Francis H. Leggett. After sinking off the Oregon coast on September 
18, 1914, taking a toll of all but two of the 62 lives aboard,[2] the call 
sign "WSB" was reassigned to the Firewood, the name of which forms a grim 
coincidence with its fate: the ship burned off the coast of Peru on December 
18, 1919, with 28 persons on board, all of whom were saved.[3] Because 
superstitious seafarers objected to being issued a call sign previously 
used by a ship that suffered a bad fate, "tainted" calls like "WSB" were 
quietly issued to unsinkable land stations.[4] Over time, station management 
would say the call letters stood for "Welcome South, Brother," but were 
randomly assigned once they were no longer used by a ship. Originally on 
740 kHz until the 1936 FCC bandplan, WSB was the fourth radio station in 
the South, behind the first AM station, WBT in Charlotte, North Carolina; 
WNOX in Knoxville, Tennessee; and WWL in New Orleans, Louisiana. Founded 
by the Atlanta Journal newspaper (once a competitor of the Atlanta Constitution, 
now merged), the station signed on the air on March 15, 1922, just a few 
days prior to Constitution-owned WGM AM 710 (eventually swapped to WGST 
AM 640).[5] The station was only authorized to broadcast weather bulletins 
at first, receiving its full broadcast license later that year. WSB smoothed 
the way for the radio spread of southern gospel music, through regular 
programming hosted by Charles Davis Tillman. The Shelby Star newspaper 
(November 1985 issue) wrote that the talented Dan Hornsby, after the national 
disaster crash of the stock market, found himself working no longer for 
Columbia Records but for radio stations like WGST, WATL, and WCON along 
with being the first wake-up DJ for WSB radio in Atlanta. Lambdin Kay, 
the first general manager, called Hornsby "90% of the local talent on WSB." 
In February 1924, Lambdin Kay called Art Gillham "The Whispering Pianist" 
while performing on WSB, a name he used in billing on Columbia Records, 
radio and theatre. Gillham returned to WSB in 1937 for regular programs. 
In 1927, WSB became an NBC Radio Network affiliate.[6] The trademark three-tone 
NBC chimes were first played in the WSB studios. In 1939, the Journal newspaper 
and WSB radio station were sold to James Middleton Cox, the founder of 
what would become Cox Enterprises. Wright Bryan, a WSB news reporter as 
well as managing editor of the Atlanta Journal, was also a stringer for 
NBC during World War II. He was the first war correspondent to broadcast 
an eyewitness account of the D-Day invasion from London in the early hours 
of June 6, 1944. Elmo Ellis, who programmed WSB in the 1950s and 1960s, 
is remembered as an innovator among Southern broadcasters. He provided 
the on-air editorials for the station, and in the 1960s, consistently supported 
civil rights. From 1925 to 1956, WSB radio, along with sisters WSB-FM 104.5 
(now 98.5) and WSB-TV 8 (later 2), operated out of the top floor of the 
Atlanta Biltmore Hotel in lower Midtown. Afterward, the WSB stations broadcast 
from a Colonial-style mansion specially built for broadcasting, informally 
known as White Columns, also located in midtown, where Peachtree Street 
crosses West Peachtree Street near Ansley Park. In 1998, all of the Cox 
Radio stations located in the Atlanta radio market, as well as WSB-TV, 
moved into "Digital White Columns" on the same property, the original one 
being demolished afterward. WSB formerly broadcast in AM stereo using the 
Motorola C-QUAM system during the 1980s, a period when music could still 
be heard on the station. The on-air talent in this era included morning 
hosts Russ Spooner and Dick Hamby, playing "middle of the road" music, 
and Skip Caray presenting morning sportscasts. As WSB's format progressed 
to a full-time news/talk radio format by 1987, the AM stereo system was 
turned off. On August 16, 2010, WSB programming began to be simulcast on 
then-WBTS 95.5 FM, replacing the former rhythmic CHR format "95.5 The Beat." 
On October 1, 2010, WBTS-FM changed its call letters to WSBB-FM. The extra 
"B" was added to the FM call letters because Cox already owns a station 
with the WSB-FM call sign on 98.5. WSB AM has long served as the flagship 
radio station for the University of Georgia Bulldog Radio Network, carrying 
all Bulldogs football and basketball games. WSB has also served as the 
flagship station for Atlanta Braves Major League Baseball, Atlanta Falcons 
NFL Football, and Atlanta Hawks NBA basketball. WSB carried Braves baseball 
coverage from 1966, when the Braves moved from Milwaukee, until 1991. In 
1992, the Atlanta Braves game coverage moved to rival WGST until 1994. 
In 1995, the Braves coverage returned to WSB, the year the Braves won their 
only Atlanta World Series title to date. That same year the Atlanta Hawks 
game coverage was also picked up by the station. From 1995 until 2004, 
WSB was branded as the "Sports Voice of the South", carrying play-by-play 
game coverage of Braves baseball, Hawks basketball, and UGA football and 
basketball. WSB won a 1946 Special Citation of Honor Peabody Award for 
its program, "The Harbor We Seek."[7] ¹Clear-channel stations with extended 
nighttime coverage ²Broadcast in Spanish (fulltime) ♠WRDG simulcasts WRDA 
