WSCR (670 kHz, "670 The Score") is a commercial AM radio station licensed 
to Chicago, Illinois. The station is owned by CBS Radio and broadcasts 
a sports talk radio format. Its transmitter is located just off Army Trail 
Road in the suburb of Bloomingdale, and its studios are located at Two 
Prudential Plaza in the Loop. It is known as "The Score," and has been 
on the air since January 2, 1992. WSCR is currently the Chicago radio home 
for Chicago Cubs baseball and is the flagship station for the Chicago Cubs 
Radio Network, as well as Illinois Fighting Illini football and men's basketball. 
WSCR also carries other live sports programming from CBS Sports Radio and 
Westwood One, including Monday Night Football. WSCR uses HD Radio on its 
AM signal 24 hours a day.[1][note 1] The station's programming is also 
available to listeners with an HD Radio receiver via a simulcast on the 
HD2 subchannel of sister station WJMK. The station initially signed on 
at 820KHz AM on January 2, 1992 as a 5,000-watt regional "daytime" station.[2] 
This meant that after sundown the station had to sign off to avoid interfering 
with the nighttime signal of WBAP in Fort Worth, Texas, the clear-channel 
station on 820. WSCR moved to 1160 AM on April 7, 1997,[3] and to its current 
frequency of 670 AM — a 50,000-watt clear-channel signal acquired when 
Viacom ceased broadcasting WMAQ's all-news format — in August 2000, and 
subsequently divested the 1160 frequency due to FCC limits on ownership 
(see WMAQ (AM) and WYLL). WSCR's studios were then located at 4949 W. Belmont 
Ave. on the northwest side of Chicago, in the building where sister station 
WXRT had long been located. (WSCR ceased broadcasting from that location 
in 2001.) From 2001 to 2008, the station was the flagship for Chicago Blackhawks 
hockey, until their move to WGN 720 AM. WSCR was also the radio home for 
the Chicago White Sox baseball team from 2006 to 2015, until their departure 
to WLS 890 AM at the conclusion of the 2015 season.[4] The Chicago Cubs 
joined WSCR following the White Sox' departure to WLS 890 AM. When the 
Cubs left WGN for CBS Radio following the 2014 season, the Cubs were heard 
on WBBM 780 AM. A clause in the Cubs' deal with CBS allowed a one time 
move to WSCR in the event that the White Sox left the station.[5] The move 
was officially announced on November 11, 2015.[6] The Cubs' first year 
on WSCR paid immediate dividends, as the team won the 2016 World Series, 
its first world championship in 108 years, and the first since the birth 
of radio and modern communications. Before 1992, the WSCR call letters 
were used for a station in Hamden, Connecticut. Prior to that, they were 
the longtime radio call letters for a station in Scranton, Pennsylvania 
at 1320 AM. The Score is known for various concepts, such as: Starting 
in 2005, WSCR started airing Sporting News Radio overnights (now CBS Sports 
Radio and limited to Saturday and Sunday a.m. and other fill-in time slots). 
It also began airing the Dan Patrick show on a delayed basis in 2007. Now 
overnights are covered by Les Grobstein. WSCR also airs CBS Sports Radio 
on its website whenever it airs the NFL on Westwood One or the Cubs, which 
do not allow live streaming. The station is the exclusive Chicago radio 
outlet for Illinois Fighting Illini men's basketball and football along 
with Chicago Cubs baseball, Westwood One's coverage of NFL football, and 
pre/postgame shows. Twice an hour, there are minute-long "Score Board Updates" 
by reporters with game results and highlighted stories of the day. Many 
producers are on-air contributors and fill in when other hosts have days 
off. Other reporters include Julie Dicaro, Zach Zaidman, David Schuster, 
Nick Shepkowski, and Jay Zawaski. Weekends outside of play-by-play constitute 
of local shows by Mike Esposito, Steve Rosenbloom and Mark Grote (Rosenbloom 
and Grote host a show known as the Wake & Bake show), Matt Rodewald, and 
"White Sox Weekly" with Chris Rongey, as well as syndicated shows from 
CBS Sports Radio. The Score has had three primary broadcast facilities 
in its years on the air. The first was at 4949 West Belmont Avenue on the 
Northwest Side of Chicago. The second, with them moving to the 670 frequency 
after the merger of Westinghouse and CBS Radio, was at the NBC Tower. Currently 
the station is located in Two Prudential Plaza, along with several other 
