WSNS-TV, virtual channel 44 (UHF digital channel 45), is a Telemundo owned-and-operated 
television station located in Chicago, Illinois, United States. The station 
is owned by the NBCUniversal Owned Television Stations subsidiary of NBCUniversal, 
as part of a duopoly with NBC owned-and-operated station WMAQ-TV (channel 
5). The two stations share studio facilities within the NBC Tower in downtown 
Chicago's Magnificent Mile district. WSNS's transmitter is located atop 
the Willis Tower on South Wacker Drive in the Chicago Loop. The station 
first signed on the air on April 5, 1970, as an independent station; it 
is currently the third-oldest commercial television station on the UHF 
band in the Chicago market (behind WCIU-TV (channel 26), which signed on 
in February 1964; and WFLD (channel 32), which signed on in January 1966). 
WSNS was originally owned by a consortium of investors including Harriscope 
Broadcasting (which owned a 50% interest) and the Essaness Television Corporation, 
from which the station's call letters are derived. The station's transmitter 
and studio facilities were located on the 97th floor of the John Hancock 
Center on North Michigan Avenue in the Streeterville neighborhood. The 
station never disclosed its ownership, in any of WSNS' formats, during 
regular sign-ons or sign-offs. Initially, channel 44 maintained an all-news 
programming format. During the daytime, the station aired an alphanumeric 
feed of news reports supplied from various wire services set to continuous 
elevator music, with a commercial banner placed on the lower third of the 
screen displaying advertisements for businesses such as Continental Bank, 
Jewel Foods and other clients. Every seven minutes, a four-sided board 
would be rotated – which was taped live on-camera – to display news headlines, 
traffic reports, sports scores and birthdays of notable celebrities and 
other personalities. On November 16, 1970, the station moved to into a 
newly constructed studio facility on West Grant Place in the Lincoln Park 
community's Mid-North District. During these early years, the Emergency 
Broadcast System required many stations to shut down in the event of a 
national emergency. On February 20, 1971, during a National Level EBS message 
was accidentally activated, WSNS was the only television station to respond 
correctly and shut down.[1] The all-news format was not particularly successful, 
and by 1972, WSNS had converted into an entertainment-based independent, 
running a low-budget general entertainment schedule. Basically, WSNS was 
the "also ran" independent station in the market, running whatever programming 
that established independents, WGN-TV (channel 9, now a CW affiliate) and 
WFLD (now a Fox owned-and-operated station), declined to purchase the local 
rights to. The lineup included some Japanese animated and adventure series 
(such as Prince Planet, Ultraman, Marine Boy and The Space Giants), along 
with low-budget cartoons, older off-network shows, older feature films, 
and religious programming. WSNS did incorporate a few stronger programs 
within its schedule (among them, I Love Lucy, The Munsters, Leave It To 
Beaver and Gomer Pyle USMC); for a time during the mid-1970s, it also carried 
a local early-1960s-era showcase of Popeye cartoons hosted by Steve Hart. 
During the late 1970s, the station had also aired talk shows such as The 
Merv Griffin Show, The Mike Douglas Show, and Dinah!. In addition, WSNS 
featured Chicago White Sox baseball games for seven years as well as showing 
Chicago Blackhawks hockey. By the early 1980s, the station had lost some 
of its higher-profile shows (such as I Love Lucy) to competitors such as 
WFLD. With the station stuck near the bottom of the ratings, WSNS looked 
at various options to become more viable. One such option was to acquire 
additional movie rights and drama series, and focus on more adult fare 
in the manner of what fellow independents WOR-TV (now WWOR-TV) in New York 
City and KTLA in Los Angeles were carrying at the time. However, the station 
was approached by National Subscription Television, a subsidiary of Oak 
Industries, about purchasing time on the station to broadcast a planned 
over-the-air subscription service called ONTV. Following an effort by the 
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to promote alternative programming 
efforts on the UHF broadcasting spectrum, such as subscription television 
services, WSNS filed for and received one of the many subscription television 
licenses awarded in the United States, 32 of which went into use at one 
point. The station then began carrying programming from the new ONTV service. 
During the late 1970s and early 1980s, most major cities had one or two 
licensed subscription television operators. To obtain a subscription television 
license, the station had to provide the FCC with a proposal detailing the 
programming to be offered (usually first-run movies, children's shows during 
the morning hours and late-night adult entertainment, much like those offered 
by cable-originated pay services such as HBO or Showtime). The station 
required subscribers to have a descrambler installed in their home in order 
to unscramble the station's signal during ONTV's programming hours. National 
Subscription Television subsequently purchase a 24.5% interest in the station 
from Essaness Television Corporation. In September 1980, WSNS continued 
to maintain a general entertainment programming format until 7:00 p.m. 
on weekdays and on weekends until 5:00 p.m., with ONTV occupying the remaining 
time periods. In November 1981, WSNS extended its transmission of ON-TV 
programming by one hour on weekdays (now starting at 6:00 p.m.) and by 
three hours on weekends (to 12:00 p.m.). By January 1982, WSNS began carrying 
ONTV for 20 hours per day, with an hour of public service programming (which 
also was listed as part of ONTV's schedule, though was not mentioned in 
other listings publications such as TV Guide) in order to fulfill FCC requirements 
for television stations offering a subscription service to broadcast at 
least 20 hours of unencrypted programming per week. In January 1983, after 
the FCC repealed the unencrypted programming requirements the previous 
fall, WSNS began carrying ON-TV programming on a 24-hour basis, with the 
station's signal being scrambled the entire time. During one of the station's 
license renewal periods in 1982, Monroe Communications Corporation, a group 
owned by twelve Chicago-area investors, filed a motion with the FCC to 
contest the license for WSNS, arguing that a television station should 
not be allowed to use the public airwaves for a subscription fee nor should 
the airwaves be used to carry indecent content; this case was ultimately 
settled.[1] The ONTV Chicago service ceased operations in July 1985, largely 
due to the long-awaited entrance of cable television service into the area. 
Chicago was the last market where ONTV ended service as a result of protracted 
debates by the Chicago City Council over how to divide the market for cable 
distribution in order to avoid a single provider monopolizing service. 
However, WSNS was hit with additional lawsuits regarding the softcore pornographic 
films aired on ONTV, challenges that continued shortly after the service's 
shutdown. In addition, in February of that year, administrative law judge 
Joseph Chachkin ruled in favor of Monroe Communications in its effort to 
strip the Essaness/Harriscope/National Subscription Television venture 
of the WSNS license. Video 44, Inc. (the licensee operated by Essaness 
and Harriscope) appealed the ruling, which resulted in a stay of the judge's 
order.[2] By 1985, WSNS decided the subscription format was not commercially 
viable, at a time when cable television providers were beginning to enter 
into the Chicago market. On July 1 of that year, after signing a three-year 
affiliation agreement with the network, the station became a full-time 
affiliate of the Spanish International Network – which became Univision 
the following year. WSNS displaced WCIU-TV (channel 26) as the market's 
SIN affiliate; that station ran the network's programming daily after 5:00 p.m. 
and the English language Stock Market Observer business news block during 
the daytime hours; WCIU then affiliated with NetSpan (which would become 
Telemundo in 1987). On October 13, 1988, WSNS-TV announced that it would 
switch its affiliation to Telemundo after that station's affiliation agreement 
with Univision concluded on December 31; two months later on December 16, 
WCIU – whose contract with Telemundo was set to expire the following month 
– signed an affiliation agreement with Univision, returning the station 
to that network after two years. The two stations switched affiliations 
on January 10, 1989.[3][4] Monroe Communications' attempts to have the 
WSNS license revoked from the Essaness-Harriscope venture's possession 
continued into the early 1990s. In April 1990, a federal appeals court 
in Washington, D.C. overturned the FCC's 1989 decision to renew Video 44's 
license to operate WSNS, stating that the agency acted "arbitrarily and 
capriciously" in granting it, partly due to it having "improperly refused 
to consider evidence of obscene broadcasts" by the station in the early 
1980s, requiring the Commission to conduct further proceedings in the dispute.[5] 
On September 19, 1990, the FCC denied Video 44's application to renew its 
license; the ruling was upheld on appeal weeks later in a 5-0 decision, 
and awarded a new construction permit to Monroe Communications; Video 44, 
Inc. subsequently appealed the decision.[6][7] Although Monroe pledged 
to provide an expanded array of Hispanic programming aimed at Chicagoans 
of Mexican and Central American heritage should its license application 
be approved, several Hispanic aldermen on the Chicago City Council and 
other community leaders objected to the FCC's decision, expressing concern 
that the revocation would deprive Chicago's Hispanic community of a major 
voice.[8] The FCC denied Video 44's appeal of the license revocation for 
a second time on July 25, 1991.[9] The dispute between the Monroe and Essaness/Harriscope 
groups finally ended after eleven years in June 1993, when Monroe Communications 
reached an agreement with Harriscope to drop its case against Video 44, 
Inc., in an $18 million settlement awarded to Monroe by Harriscope Broadcasting.[10] 
On November 9, 1995, Essaness sold a 74.5% controlling interest in the 
station to Telemundo for $44.7 million, with Essaness retaining a 25.5% 
stake. The move provided Telemundo with its first major-market owned-and-operated 
station and allowed Telemundo to establish itself as a viable Spanish language 
network against Univision.[11] When NBC purchased Telemundo in 2002, WSNS 
became part of the newly enlarged conglomerate, creating Chicago's first 
commercial television duopoly between two full-power television stations. 
At that time, WSNS migrated from its longtime studio facility on West Grant 
Place and merged its operations with NBC owned-and-operated station WMAQ-TV 
(channel 5) at the NBC Tower on North Columbus Drive in the Magnificent 
Mile; the Grant Place building has since been demolished. The following 
year, NBC became the sole owner of WSNS when it bought out Essaness' stake 
in the partnership. On November 11, 2016, WMAQ-TV's president and general 
manager David Doebler appointed as president and general manager of WSNS-TV, 
Doebler is succeeding its president and general manager Chris McDonnell 
who is hired by the station in 2012, making the second person in Chicago 
to becoming president and general manager of the Duopoly stations (following 
Dennis Welsh of Fox-owned duopoly of WFLD/WPWR-TV) and the second NBC employee 
to becoming the president and general manager of their Duopoly stations 
(following Ric Harris of the Philladelphia's duopoly stations of WCAU and 
WWSI).[12] The station's digital channel is multiplexed: WSNS-TV shut down 
its analog signal, over UHF channel 44, on June 12, 2009, the official 
date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned 
from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's 
digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 45.[15] Through 
the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual 
channel as its former UHF analog channel 44. WSNS-TV also relocated its 
main transmitter was from the John Hancock Center to the Willis Tower. 
WSNS obtained the rights to broadcast Major League Baseball games involving 
the Chicago White Sox in 1973, assuming the rights from WFLD. During this 
period, the station's White Sox game telecasts were announced by legendary 
play-by-play announcer Harry Caray. Beginning in 1977, Caray was joined 
in the broadcast booth by former Boston Red Sox outfielder Jimmy Piersall 
as color commentator. The games were produced under an outsourcing agreement 
between WSNS and WGN-TV, the latter of which produced the telecasts (Caray 
also appeared on WGN's newscasts as a sports anchor during the 1970s, and 
was therefore employed with that station). WSNS carried White Sox games 
through the 1980 season, after which the telecasts began airing exclusively 
on WGN-TV for the 1981 season, before it lost the Sox television rights 
to WFLD. WSNS was also the home of Bob Luce Wrestling, which occasionally 
featured guest appearances by longtime White Sox announcer Bob Elson to 
cross-promote the White Sox game telecast that followed the weekly wrestling 
matches.[16][17] In 1972, WSNS aired the 1972 Summit Series via satellite, 
which featured the national hockey teams from Canada and Soviet Union. 
WSNS also aired Chicago Bulls basketball games from 1973 to 1976, as well 
as WHA hockey games involving the Chicago Cougars from 1972 to 1975. From 
1976 to 1980, channel 44 aired the NHL Game of the Week on Monday evenings; 
the station began airing road games featuring the Chicago Blackhawks from 
1978 to 1980 (those games were also simulcast on WCFL (1000 AM, now WMVP), 
which was the Blackhawks' local radio broadcaster at the time). WSNS was 
the last broadcast television station in the market to air Blackhawks games 
until the 2008-09 season, when WGN-TV acquired the rights to broadcast 
the team's games. During the 1970s, WSNS aired college basketball games 
featuring the Purdue Boilermakers, the Indiana Hoosiers, and – in the late 
1970s – the DePaul Blue Demons. WSNS-TV presently broadcasts 10 hours of 
locally produced newscasts each week (with a half-hour each weekday); the 
station does not produce any newscasts on Saturdays or Sundays. In addition, 
the station produces Enfoque Chicago, a local version of Telemundo's political 
discussion program Enfoque, which airs Saturday evenings at 4:30 p.m. and 
Acceso Total, a locally produced entertainment and lifestyle program,[18] 
which airs Fridays and Mondays at 10:30 a.m., and Sundays at 4:30 and 10:30 p.m. 
WSNS' newscasts have long placed second among the Chicago market's Spanish-language 
stations; however, the station has long maintained a fierce competition 
with Univision owned-and-operated station WGBO-DT for the highest-rated 
Spanish newscasts in the market. During the station's initial all-news 
format, the first program to be added was Underground News, a 10-minute 
program that premiered at 11:50 p.m. on July 1, 1970, when the Associated 
Press wire feed began incorporating local news stories. At that time, the 
banner ad on the lower third of the screen changed to feature an advertisement 
for Head Imports, with the program being set to music from progressive 
rock artists such as The Grateful Dead. Most of the stories featured on 
Underground News focused on the anti-war movement. With a staff consisting 
of local talent and a team of recent graduates from Southern Illinois University, 
the station went "live" during this time. One of the first live-on-tape 
programs to air was a reformatted Underground News, which was hosted, reported 
and co-produced by Chuck Collins, a 21-year-old recent political science 
studies graduate. Eventually, the rights to the program were purchased 
by Collins and Samuelsohn, who sold Underground News into syndication, 
where it aired in more than a dozen cities. Collins would go on to win 
seven Emmy Awards during his tenure NBC News, two Peabody Awards, a Dupont 
Award and the American Bar Association's Silver Gavel Award (he died from 
nerve disease in July 2010). In order for WSNS to secure an advertising 
deal with a local mattress store, the station also launched a news program 
titled Heart of the News, which featured anchor Linda Fuoco reading the 
news in a provocative manner on a heart-shaped bed.[19] That program was 
short-lived; however, the program's second anchor, Judith Wright, anticipated 
such current-day satirical news programs as The Daily Show, as she made 
funny and ironic commentaries on news stories culled from the AP wire during 
the day (Wright later went on to become a Ph.D. geochemist, an ironic twist 
for a young starlet, and invented a method of using fish bones to clean 
up heavy metal contamination in water and soil). After discontinuing the 
all-news format in 1972, WSNS would not broadcast news programming again 
until October 1985, after it became a Spanish International Network affiliate, 
when it launched a new news department and premiered Noticentro 44, a half-hour 
Spanish-language local newscast airing weeknights at 5:00 and 10:00 p.m., 
which were originally anchored by Enrique Gonzalez del Real and Roberta 
Nozicka, with reporting by David Cordova and Alberto Sillas. As the anchors 
and formats changed over the years, WSNS' prime objective was to produce 
professional and insightful newscasts comparable to any other local television 
news outlet in the Chicago market. In 2002, the station expanded its news 
coverage as part of Telemundo's strategic plans to revamp its owned-and-operated 
stations, including its sister stations in New York City, Los Angeles and 
Miami. On January 15, 2001 it launched a morning newscast called Buenos 
Días Chicago that aired from 6:00am to 7:00am but along with sister station 
KTMD-TV it was cancelled after September 11th attacks. In 2005, WSNS' newscasts 
began to skyrocket in the ratings, earning some of their highest viewership 
in the history of the current news department. The newscasts, then anchored 
by Esmeralda Medellín and Vicente Serrano at 5:00 and 10:00 p.m., were 
retitled from Noticiero 44 to Noticiero Telemundo Chicago (in accordance 
with the station's adoption of the new "Telemundo Chicago" brand that de-emphasized 
references to its over-the-air placement on channel 44) and introduced 
a new graphics package based on that used by NBC O&O sister WNBC in New 
York City. In addition, as some of its fellow Telemundo O&Os had done, 
WSNS debuted an in-depth news/public affairs program titled En Contexto 
(In Context), which was anchored by Serrano. Later that year, Medellin 
left the station, while Serrano was laid off due to budget cuts imposed 
by the network; weather anchor Tsi-Tsi-Ki Félix was subsequently promoted 
to a news anchor position. In 2008, the station attempted to expand its 
news programming. It debuted Telemundo Chicago Por la Mañana, a mid-morning 
news program that replaced paid programming in its 10:30 a.m. timeslot, 
and was anchored by Felix, who added the program in addition to her existing 
solo anchor duties on the 5:00 p.m. newscast; Serrano remained host En 
Contexto as well. The station first launched a morning news program in 
2007, after Alfonso Gutierrez joined WSNS, anchoring a five-minute weekday 
morning update titled En Vivo Por La Mañana at 5:55 a.m. In May 2009, Vicente 
Serrano was laid off by WSNS management due to financial constraints;[20] 
the station subsequently announced that it would cancel Por la Manana and 
replace it with a new entertainment/lifestyle program Acceso Total that 
September, to be hosted by Nelly Carreño, who would also serve as weather 
anchor for the weeknight newscasts. At that time, Felix became an evening 
anchor full-time, helming the 10:00 p.m. newscast solo in addition to the 
5:00 edition, becoming the first to regularly solo anchor a newscast in 
the history of the station's current news department. Felix gained a co-anchor 
in 2011, when Rolmàn Vergara joined the station as anchor of the vening 
newscasts. In November 2012, Felix and Vegara both left WSNS within a day 
of one another (the latter's departure came after having only been at the 
station for nine months), with Alfonso Gutierrez serving as interim anchor; 
Félix's departure was surprising, considering her popularity with viewers 
and the fact that she had been with WSNS in some on-air capacity since 
May 2001.[21][22][23] In August 2013, Edna Schmidt (who previously reported 
for WGBO, before becoming a Chicago-based correspondent for Univision Noticias) 
was named co-anchor of the 5:00 and 10:00 p.m. newscasts, only to be fired 
by the station that October; Schmidt filed a lawsuit against the station 
in November of that year, claiming that WSNS and its corporate parent NBC 
Universal violated the Americans with Disabilities Act by failing to provide 
Schmidt "reasonable accommodation" for her alcoholism after she anchored 
the September 30, 2013 edition of the 10:00 p.m. newscast while intoxicated, 
leading to her suspension and later dismissal.[24][25][26] On September 
18, 2014, Telemundo announced that it would expand its early-evening newscast 
to one hour, with the addition of a half-hour program at 4:30 p.m., as 
part of a groupwide news expansion across Telemundo's O&Os.[27] On December 
19, 2014, Anabel Monge (former anchor at KWEX-TV in San Antonio) joined 
the station as co-anchor on the 5:00 and 10:00 p.m. newscasts,[28] with 
fellow newcomer Marcella Vasquez joining as solo anchor of the 4:30 newscast; 
the station also implemented a revised version of the Telemundo O&O standardized 
graphics and introduced a new set for its newscasts, replacing one that 
had been in use since 2004. On June 29, 2015, WSNS launched a consumer 
investigative unit Telemundo Responde (the ninth such unit launched by 
Telemundo Station Group), reporting on local residents who have been victims 
of fraud, identity theft and scams; the unit is currently headed by chief 
investigative reporter Alba Mendiola, who joined the station as a general 
assignment reporter in 2001 and formerly hosted Enfoque Chicago.[29][30][31] 
On September 26, 2016, WSNS expands its 4:30 p.m. newscast to an hour, 
with an early half-hour extension at 4:00 p.m. that replaces the 30 minute 
syndicated version of Caso Cerrado in that timeslot, making the first Spanish 
language station in Chicago to have 90 minutes of local news every weekday; 
which is completed with English language 4:00 p.m. newscasts on rivals 
WLS-TV, WMAQ-TV and WGN-TV; this is a part of the expansions on its local 
