WTAM (1100 AM) – branded Newsradio WTAM 1100 – is a commercial news/talk 
radio station licensed to Cleveland, Ohio, serving Greater Cleveland and 
much of surrounding Northeast Ohio. Owned by iHeartMedia, Inc., WTAM is 
a clear-channel station with an extended nighttime range, often identifying 
itself as The Big One. WTAM serves as the Cleveland affiliate for Fox News 
Radio, The Glenn Beck Program, The Rush Limbaugh Show, and Coast to Coast 
AM; the AM flagship station for the Cleveland Cavaliers and Cleveland Indians 
radio networks; and the home of radio personality Mike Trivisonno. The 
WTAM studios are located in the Cleveland suburb of Independence, while 
the station's transmitter resides in nearby Brecksville. Besides a standard 
analog transmission, WTAM had also broadcast over a single HD Radio channel 
(HD Radio transmission off air since 2013) and is available online via 
iHeartRadio.[1] The station first carried the WTAM call letters from 1923 
to 1956; assigned sequentially by the FCC, the letters were later treated 
as a backronym for "Where The Artisans Meet." The station re-adopted the 
same call letters in 1996 to reinforce the station's position on the AM 
band; station management considered the historical tie "a nice bonus, but... 
more incidental than anything else."[2] WTAM began broadcast operations 
on September 26, 1923.[3] It was one of several stations that started between 
1922 and 1923 with a call sign assigned sequentially by the Commerce Department 
with "W" as the first letter and "A" as the third.[4] It was originally 
owned by S.E. Lawrence and Theodore Willard, in the name of the Willard 
Storage Battery Company.[5] Initially the station only offered three hours 
of nightly programming, but soon expanded its on-air lineup. Studios were 
located in the Willard factory on Taft Avenue at East 131st Street.[3] 
By June 30, 1924, WTAM was broadcasting with 1000 watts and sharing the 
770 kHz frequency with WJAX.[6] WJAX had signed on earlier in 1922, owned 
by the Union Trust Co. In 1924 it was known as the "Wave from Lake Erie." 
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. purchased WJAX in 1925 and changed to the callsign 
to WEAR. Finally, Willard Battery purchased WEAR to have control of shared 
frequency allocation.[7] WTAM was the first radio station to broadcast 
coverage of a political convention when it covered the 1924 Republican 
National Convention at Cleveland's Public Auditorium on June 10–12, 1924.[3][5] 
The station's power increased to 2500 watts in 1925 and to 3500 watts in 
1926, as the studios moved to the Union Trust Building (now the Huntington 
Building). By June 30, 1927, WTAM and WEAR broadcast on 750 kHz with WTAM 
broadcasting with 3500 watts.[8] The January 31, 1928 Radio Service Bulletin 
of the Commerce Department listed WTAM broadcasting with 3500 watts at 
night and 5000 watts during the day.[9] After Willard Battery threatened 
to close the station, WTAM and WEAR were purchased by the Cleveland Electric 
Illuminating Company (now part of FirstEnergy) and the Van Sweringen brothers 
on May 31, 1928. In a statement announcing the purchase, the new owners 
declared, "Recognizing the fact that this radio station is a civic asset 
to the Greater Cleveland district and that the cessation of its operation 
would be a real loss, the Van Sweringen interests and the Illuminating 
Co. entered into arrangements to continue it. Every effort will be made 
to maintain the station on a plane which will make it of maximum value 
to the community."[10] When the new Federal Radio Commission instituted 
General Order 40 after the passage of the Radio Act of 1927, WTAM along 
with sister station WEAR (at that point absorbed into WTAM entirely) claimed 
the clear channel frequency allocated to Cleveland, and on November 11, 
1928 it began broadcasting at 1070 kHz with WTAM broadcasting at 50,000 
watts.[11] In 1929 the station built two broadcast towers in Brecksville, 
Ohio, each 200 feet high.[3] With its national prominence as a clear channel 
giant established, WTAM became a valuable radio property. NBC purchased 
WTAM on October 16, 1930, and the studios were moved to the Auditorium 
Building.[3] The station became a major link in the NBC Red Network, contributing 
some programming to the network. Around 1930, Gene Carroll and Glenn Rowell 
brought their vaudeville humor to WTAM with the Gene and Glenn show.[12][13] 
The duo became famous for their characters "Jake & Lena". WTAM originated 
the program for nationwide broadcast on the NBC Red Network and it aired 
six days a week for five years. NBC began to make substantial investments 
to station facilities in the 1930s. In 1937 a new tower was built in Brecksville 
which was 480 feet tall. That tower is still in use today by WTAM and FM 
stations WAKS, a WTAM sister station, and WZAK.[14] In 1937 or 1938, the 
station moved to 815 Superior Avenue, and the building was renamed the 
NBC building. (The building is known today as the Superior Building.) On 
March 29, 1941, with the implementation of NARBA, WTAM moved its broadcast 
frequency from 1070 to 1100 kHz, maintaining its clear-channel status. 
During the 1940s, the station continued to contribute some programming 
to the NBC radio network. On March 19, 1946 Bob Hope brought his Tuesday 
night 10 pm Pepsodent radio show to Cleveland along with Jerry Colonna, 
Frances Langford and the Skinnay Ennis Orchestra for a broadcast on the 
NBC radio network. Guests included Ohio Governor Frank Lausche. Recordings 
of this program are still available from collectors of old radio programs.[15][16][17] 
WTAM also broadcast the 1948 World Series games of the Cleveland Indians 
against the Boston Braves, with announcers Jim Britt and Mel Allen. In 
1951, WTAM originated an NBC Radio Network broadcast of the Cleveland Orchestra.[3] 
NBC also expanded its broadcasting interests in Cleveland beyond AM radio. 
On October 31, 1948, NBC launched a sister television outlet, WNBK, on 
channel 4. A few weeks later, on December 6, 1948, sister station WTAM-FM 
began broadcasting on 105.7 MHz, simulcasting the AM programming. The broadcast 
tower for WTAM AM-FM and WNBK was moved to Parma, Ohio in the early 1950s. 
The AM radio outlet continued to use the Parma tower until 1974, when transmissions 
were moved back to the original broadcast tower in Brecksville. WTAM also 
aired Cleveland Browns games during the 1952, 1953, and 1955 seasons; Jim 
Graner provided color commentary during the 1955 season.[18] In late 1955, 
NBC persuaded Westinghouse to trade its Philadelphia stations, KYW radio 
and WPTZ television (now KYW-TV) in return for NBC's Cleveland properties 
and $3 million in cash compensation.[19] NBC had long wanted to own a station 
in Philadelphia, the nation's third-largest market at the time. The swap 
went into effect on January 22, 1956.[20] Westinghouse wanted to keep the 
historic KYW callsign, which had been Chicago's oldest radio facility before 
being transferred to Philadelphia on December 3, 1934. Therefore, on February 
13, 1956, the Cleveland stations became KYW-AM-FM-TV; the Philadelphia 
stations became WRCV-AM-TV.[21] The WTAM callsign was later picked up by 
WGLS in Atlanta, Georgia. In the early 1960s, under Westinghouse ownership 
KYW, known on-air as "KY11," became a Top 40 powerhouse with disc jockeys 
Jim Runyon (the "weeeellll" voice of the Chickenman series), Jim Stagg, 
Jay Lawrence, Jerry G., and the morning duo of Harry Martin and Specs Howard.[22][23][24] 
Its main Top 40 rival in the Cleveland market was "Color Channel 14" WHK, 
at 1420 AM. Almost immediately after the trade was finalized, Westinghouse 
complained to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the Justice 
Department about NBC's coercion.[25][26] It was discovered that Westinghouse 
only agreed to the trade when NBC made implications that it would pull 
its television programming from WPTZ and Westinghouse's other NBC affiliate, 
WBZ-TV in Boston.[27] In 1964, after a protracted legal battle, the FCC 
ordered the swap of stations reversed without NBC realizing any profit 
on the deal.[28] NBC regained control of the Cleveland stations on June 
19, 1965 and changed their call letters to WKYC-AM-FM-TV, which kept the 
popular "KY" slogan and identity Westinghouse brought into Cleveland.[29][30] 
To this day, the KYW stations insist that they "moved" to Cleveland in 
1956 and "returned" to Philadelphia in 1965. However, the two stations' 
facilities remained the same.[31] WKYC continued as a Top 40 outlet–the 
only such-formatted station under NBC ownership-with DJs Harry Martin, 
Specs Howard, Jay Lawrence and Jerry G holding over from KYW/Westinghouse. 
When Program Director Ken Draper left for Chicago's WCFL in early 1965 
(prior to the ownership change), both Jim Stagg[32][33] and Jim Runyon 
wasted no time following him.[34] Bill Winters came in about this time. 
Jim LaBarbara was wooed away from a 3-day stint at WIXY to do evening prime 
time. Chuck Dann and KLIF's morning duo Charlie and Harrigan signed on. 
Jim Gallant was doing overnights.[35] In late 1966, popular afternoon DJ 
Jerry G (Jerry Ghan) also decided to follow Draper to WCFL.[36] He was 
replaced by WIXY's evening man Jack Armstrong, who then decided to call 
himself Big Jack. LaBarbara was moved to overnight to accommodate Armstrong's 
installation as the evening jock. In early 1967, the on air staff consisted 
of: LaBarbara, overnight; Charlie and Harrigan, morning drive; Bob Cole, 
late morning; Jay Lawrence, mid afternoons; Chuck Dann, afternoon drive; 
and Big Jack in the prime time slot. WKYC "Radio 11" was a large record-selling 
influence as far away as New York City and Miami. However, its main local 
competition in those days was WIXY 1260 "Super Radio". Unlike WIXY, WKYC 
– being an NBC owned-and-operated station in a situation not unlike WRC 
in Washington – was obligated to carry all NBC Radio programming such as 
the weekend Monitor, as well as all top-of-the-hour NBC Radio newscasts. 
The NBC Radio afternoon daily network news feed was also based from WKYC's 
studios and anchored by Virgil Dominic, who also served as WKYC-TV's lead 
news anchor. On February 1, 1968, at 3:05 pm, following an NBC Radio newscast, 
the station altered its presentation to "Power Radio", a derivative of 
the Drake-Chenault-created "Boss Radio" Top-40 format, programmed for WKYC 
by Hal Moore. The new sound emphasized "more music" with less chatter between 
songs and a tighter playlist. Personalities at that time included Charlie 
& Harrigan (Jack Woods and Paul Menard), Bob Shannon, Chuck Dunaway, Lee 
'Baby' Sims, Fred Winston, and Buddy Harrison. It remained a Top 40 station 
until early 1969, when WKYC went, for a short time, to "Heavy 11" which 
focused on acid rock artists Iron Butterfly, The Jimi Hendrix Experience, 
Janis Joplin, and the like – an oddity for a powerful AM station. In short 
while, WKYC eventually went back to a more adult-friendly MOR format. The 
FM station at 105.7 varied between automated easy-listening formats of 
the time. By 1972, NBC left radio in Cleveland again – this time for good 
– by selling WKYC-AM-FM to Ohio Communications, owned by sports franchiser 
Nick Mileti and broadcasters Jim and Tom Embrescia.;[37] NBC ended up retaining 
ownership of WKYC-TV until 1991. The AM radio station's call letters were 
changed to WWWE (for Embrescia, though Mileti was 1100's majority owner) 
and WKYC-FM became WWWM (for Mileti, though Embrescia was 105.7's majority 
owner), both on November 7, 1972. The FM station took the "M105" on-air 
persona, while the AM station adopted the "3WE" brand. Mileti also owned 
both the Cleveland Indians and Cleveland Cavaliers; the radio broadcasts 
for both teams were moved from WERE (1300 AM) to WWWE. Pete Franklin also 
moved from WERE and took over an evening sports call-in show called Sportsline. 
The program aired from 7 pm to 12 midnight every weeknight, and followed 
the Indians and Cavaliers games. Franklin became a legend, bragging that 
his station’s nighttime signal could be heard "over 38 states and half 
of Canada" (a claim still stated on-air by hosts on WTAM to this day), 
and he soon developed a listenership throughout the country. Franklin stayed 
with the station until 1987, when he left for WFAN in New York. In addition 
to Franklin, the daytime lineup included at one time or another, Jim Runyon, 
Larry Morrow, Phil McLean, Jim Davis, Jack Reynolds, Tony Matthews, Jeff 
Elliot, Johnny Andrews, Lanny Wheeler, Ted Alexander and Bill King. During 
the 1970s and 1980s, formats included AC, oldies, country, and MOR. Ownership 
of "3WE" also changed hands numerous times, having a succession of owners. 
In 1977, the station was sold to the Pacific & Southern Co. (where it again 
dropped its NBC network affiliation) and the Gannett Co. (ironically, the 
current owners of WKYC-TV). The station had a new generation of listeners 
who only knew it as "3WE," while the historic WTAM callsign ended up being 
used by the 102.3 facility in Gulfport, Mississippi. WWWM passed over into 
separate ownership in 1975, and was paired with WBBG in the late 1970s. 
"M105" changed to "Majic 105.7" as WMJI with a soft AC format in 1982. 
Lake Erie Broadcasting (owned by Art Modell and Al Lerner) purchased the 
station in 1985. The station became "Radio 11 WWWE" with a news/talk format, 
adopting a popular news/talk format from the former WJW-AM, which Lake 
Erie had sold to buy WWWE (and became WRMR in the process).[38] Talent 
on the "new" WWWE included news director John O'Day, and news staffers 
Ed Coury, Lisa Meyer, Bruce Kamp, Jim Bellis, and talk hosts Merle Pollis, 
Joel Rose, John McCullough, among others. WWWE was sold to the Independent 
Group Ltd. (owned by Tom Embrescia, Tom Wilson and Larry Pollock) on November 
30, 1987,[39] where it once again became "3WE" – the home to popular local 
"shock jock" Gary Dee in afternoon drive. However, the station continued 
to go through numerous talent turnover regardless. At one point or another, 
Fig Newton, ""Dancin" Danny Wright", Beth Fisher, Bob Henderson, Lee Kirk, 
Geoff Sindelar and Bruce Drennan would all appear on WWWE during this time. 
In 1990, WWWE was purchased by Booth American Co., based out of Detroit. 
WWWE became affiliated with ABC Radio, and its news department was taken 
to a 24-hour operation. Studios were moved to the Western Reserve Building 
on West Ninth Street overlooking the Flats. Ed Coury, former newsman, was 
brought in from Washington, D.C. to host the morning news program, and 
later, to be the station's News Director. WWWE added both Paul Harvey (dropped 
from WGAR-FM) and Rush Limbaugh (dropped from WERE) to its schedule, but 
ended its radio contract with the Cleveland Indians following the 1991 
season. After ending its contract with the Indians, WWWE signed Craig Carton 
an evening sports-talk host, paired with local sports journalist Mike Snyder. 
Carton currently co-hosts the morning show on WFAN in New York, while Snyder 
continues at WTAM. In April 1994, Booth merged with Broadcast Alchemy to 
form Secret Communications LP, which owned the station through the remainder 
of its tenure as WWWE. It was at this time Gary Bruce was hired away from 
WIOD in Miami as program director, and soon began making sweeping changes 
to the lineup. Two new hosts were brought in from WIOD; first Chuck Meyer 
for morning drive,[40] followed by "shock-jock" Jaz McKay from 9 am to 
noon.[41] The former WMMS morning team of "Jeff 'n Flash" (Jeff Kinzbach 
and Ed "Flash" Ferenc) were reunited in afternoon-drive with "Rock 'n Roll 
Talk Radio," and former "Sportsline" caller Mike Trivisonno – dubbed "Mr. 
Know It All" derisively by Pete Franklin – took over as host of "Sportsline" 
in the 6 pm–11 p.m. slot. Eventually, Rich Michaels joined WWWE in May 
1995 in the midday position, and Jaz McKay moved to the 11 pm to 2 am slot. 
Unfortunately, WWWE itself would make news on January 23, 1996, when its 
traffic plane hit a cellular phone tower and crashed in Highland Hills. 
Traffic reporter James Endsley (who was known on-air as Fred Wesley) and 
pilot James McVeigh were killed.[42] In 1996, ownership decided to replace 
the WWWE call letters. The station was temporarily branded as "Newsradio 
AM 1100" during this time, and in searching for a new "AM"-related callsign, 
it found that the original WTAM call was available.[2] On July 26, 1996,[43] 
the station once again became WTAM, forty years after having dropped the 
call letters. The WWWE call sign was later assigned to a 5000 watt daytime 
station in Atlanta (which coincidentally also broadcasts on 1100 kHz). 
On April 25, 1997, Jacor Communications announced the purchase of WTAM 
along with WLTF from Secret Communications LP.[44] Then on August 19, Jacor 
also announced the purchase of WKNR from Cablevision Systems Corp.[45] 
WKNR had the rights to Cleveland Indians baseball, which Jacor moved to 
WTAM beginning with the 1998 season. Jacor then was forced to swap WKNR 
with Capstar Broadcasting’s WTAE in Pittsburgh that August as part of the 
Justice Department settlement when Jacor purchased Nationwide Communications.[46] 
WTAE was then quickly spun off to ABC Radio. In May 1999, Clear Channel 
Communications completed its $6.5 billion purchase of Jacor and its 454 
stations, including WTAM (reuniting the station with its former 105.7 FM 
counterpart, now named WMJI).[47] As the Indians flagship station, and 
picking up some popular nationally syndicated talk shows, such as Dr. Laura 
Schlessinger (who replaced Rich Michaels) and Coast to Coast AM, WTAM began 
to build – and sustain – an audience. Unlikely success was found with Mike 
Trivisonno in 1996 after he was moved into the afternoon-drive shift and 
eventually became a lead-in to the Indians and Cavaliers broadcasts. In 
1998, Bill Wills was brought in from sister station WLW in Cincinnati and 
was paired with long-time Cleveland radio veterans John Webster and Casey 
Coleman to host Wills, Webster and Coleman in the Morning – a morning drive 
news show patterned after Wills' show on WLW. (Webster retired in 2001, 
and the morning shows' title was shortened to Wills and Coleman). Glenn 
Beck replaced Dr. Laura Schlessinger in the 9 a.m. – 12 p.m. daypart, which 
she aired during from 1997 to 2001, following the 9/11 terrorist attacks. 
Then, Beck was replaced in March 2005 with Jerry Springer's mid-morning 
show. On March 2006, WTAM replaced Springer with a local program hosted 
by Bob Frantz, coming over from Clear Channel sister station WSPD in Toledo. 
Beck's show was then brought back on November 3, 2008, bumping Frantz to 
evenings (Frantz has since left the station).[48] Studios for all of Clear 
Channel's Cleveland stations, including WTAM, were consolidated into a 
new facility in Independence, Ohio by July 2002. WTAM canceled its fifteen-year 
affiliation with ABC Radio in August 2005, picking up Fox News Radio in 
a nationwide deal that involved other Clear Channel talk stations, but 
continued to run ABC Radio's Paul Harvey until August 12, 2006. On November 
27, 2006, Casey Coleman, who was co-host of the popular Wills and Coleman 
morning show, and sideline reporter on the station's coverage of the Cleveland 
Browns, died following a fifteen-month bout with pancreatic cancer at the 
age of 55.[49] Sports director Mike Snyder was brought into the morning 
slot to succeed Casey, and the program was renamed Wills and Snyder. The 
station was one of 10 stations awarded the 2007 Crystal Radio Award for 
public service awarded by the National Association of Broadcasters.[50] 
Winners were honored at the Radio Luncheon on April 17, 2007, during the 
NAB Show in Las Vegas, Nevada. Longtime WTAM personalities Bill Wills and 
Mike Snyder host Wills and Snyder weekday mornings, which is then followed 
by The Spew, an hour-long debate between longtime Cleveland radio personalities 
John Lanigan and Mike Trivisonno.[51] Middays include conservative talk 
shows The Glenn Beck Program and The Rush Limbaugh Show, both via Premiere 
Networks. Local program The Mike Trivisonno Show airs weekday afternoons, 
which Talkers Magazine ranked 72nd in its 2015 "Heavy Hundred" list. Station 
sportscaster Nick Camino hosts an evening sports talk show. Paranormal/conspiracy 
theory oriented programs Ground Zero with Clyde Lewis, and Coast to Coast 
AM with George Noory air late evenings through the overnight hours, both 
via Premiere. WTAM also airs drive time weather updates via WKYC.[52][53] 
WTAM airs several weekend talk programs, including: At Home with Gary Sullivan; 
The Mutual Fund Show; Somewhere in Time with host Art Bell; and Live on 
Sunday Night with host Bill Cunningham. In addition, John B. Wells and 
George Knapp host Saturday and Sunday nights editions of Coast to Coast 
AM, respectively (all via Premiere). WTAM also airs Fox Sports Radio programming 
on weekends,[54] and satisfies public affairs programming on Sunday mornings 
with the City Club of Cleveland's Friday Forum.[55] WTAM serves as the 
AM flagship station for the Cleveland Cavaliers and the Cleveland Indians 
(sharing coverage with sister station/FM flagship WMMS). Cavaliers Radio 
Network programming features The Cavs Insider Radio Show with Mike Snyder 
Monday nights during the season. And from the Indians Radio Network, Tribe 
Talk with Jim Rosenhaus airs year round Saturdays. WTAM airs local pregame 
and postgame shows for Cleveland Indians broadcasts. Tribe Insider (airing 
30 minutes prior to the network pregame show), is hosted by Nick Camino. 
Extra Innings with Nick Camino airs for 90 minutes following the network 
postgame show. Extra Innings will not air after weekday day games or games 
that have a start time of 9 p.m. ET or later on weeknights (in those cases, 
regular programming resumes following the network postgame show). During 
football season WTAM airs local pregame and postgame shows before and after 
