WTBR-FM (89.7 FM, "89.7 The Brave FM") is a high school radio station broadcasting 
a classic rock music format. Licensed to Pittsfield, Massachusetts, USA, 
the station serves the Pittsfield area from inside Taconic High School 
on Valentine Road. The station is currently owned by the Pittsfield Public 
School Committee. Over the past four decades, the station has helped jump-start 
the budding careers of many future radio professionals in the Berkshires 
and beyond. In particular, in the 1970s under the leadership of station 
director, Bob Cooper, the station flourished with a wide range of student 
programming and an organization that continued to build the impressive 
archive of vinyl records. With more than an estimated 10,000 records from 
the late 1960s into the 1980s, WTBR is truly a priceless gem. Over the 
years, the station continued to serve as a significant outlet for the school 
and community. Of note, NASA astronaut, Stephanie D. Wilson, was a member 
of the radio club and she hosted her own program on WTBR. A 1984 graduate 
of Taconic High School, Wilson would go on to become the second African-American 
woman in space, taking part in two successful NASA Discovery missions in 
2006 and in 2007. However, in the several years prior to 2006, the station 
had again become devoid of programming as student turnover had left WTBR 
with dead-air for a vast majority of the time. But, in 2006, a group of 
radio veterans, led by longtime WUPE-FM News Director Larry Kratka, lit 
a new spark for the station. Kratka brought in several radio veterans, 
such as Tom Harrison, Joe Mindlin and Brad Lorenz, all of whom were on-air 
personalities and producers for WUPE-FM; John Krol, who is the former morning 
news anchor and Opinion show host for WNAW/WMNB-North Adams and former 
Berkshire Bureau Chief for WAMC-Northeast Public Radio. Krol's "Good Morning 
Pittsfield" serves as the anchor morning program with news from the Berkshire 
Eagle and features interviews with local public officials, business leaders, 
journalists and other community leaders. The station also features unique 
specialty music programs including the only underground music program in 
the Berkshires, Mike's Amazing Oldies featuring long lost resurrected music 
from the vault of host Mike Pezzo, the hard rocking metallic edge of Wounded 
Radio hosted by Tom Harrison, classic '80s rock and dance of Classic TBR 
with Brad Lorenz and Joe Mindlin and the longest-running Polish polka show 
in the area, Polka Express. New to the adult staff is Terry Lambert who 
handles Tuesday evenings from 7-11pm with rock and sports. Larry Kratka 
is Student Advisor and has also been active in upgrading the technology 
at the station, including new equipment, upgrading to stereo, and allowing 
WTBR to transmit its full power allowed by FCC license. -In June 2010, 
WTBR became the first station in Western Massachusetts to take part in 
the American Cancer Society's 'Relay for Life' in Berkshire County Central/South 
AND move to a different site and broadcast the event in stereo for 26 hours. 
The next year in 2011, they followed suit and became the official radio 
station for the Relay for Life in Berkshire County Central/South. In 2011 
and 2012, WTBR broadcast 26 hours for Special Olympics COP ON TOP fundraiser 
and received and award for its hard work. In 2012, WTBR's Sunday lineup 
added a popular talk show, Ask The Professor, which used to air on Sunday 
mornings on WUPE-FM. SENIORS TOTAL: 17 JUNIORS TOTAL:3 SOPHOMORES TOTAL:1 
FRESHMEN TOTAL STUDENTS: 21 Over the years, WTBR has provided entertainment 
and broadcast live from events throughout Berkshire County. In 2009, WTBR 
was the only local radio station to actually broadcast the entire show 
