World Wrestling Entertainment, Inc. (d/b/a WWE) is an American publicly 
traded, privately controlled entertainment company that deals primarily 
in professional wrestling, with major revenue sources also coming from 
film, music, product licensing, and direct product sales. WWE also refers 
to the professional wrestling promotion itself, founded by Jess McMahon 
and Toots Mondt in 1952 as Capitol Wrestling Corporation Ltd. As of 2014, 
it is the largest wrestling promotion in the world, holding over 300 events 
a year, and broadcasting to about 36 million viewers in more than 150 countries.[8] 
The company's headquarters are located in Stamford, Connecticut, with offices 
in major cities across the world.[9][10] The company promotes under two 
main roster brands: Raw[11] and SmackDown,[12] and a developmental brand 
NXT.[13][14] As in other professional wrestling promotions, WWE shows are 
not legitimate contests, but purely entertainment-based, featuring storyline-driven, 
scripted, and choreographed matches, though they often include moves that 
can put performers at risk of injury if not performed correctly. This was 
first publicly acknowledged by WWE's owner Vince McMahon in 1989 to avoid 
taxes from athletic commissions. Since the 1980s, WWE publicly has branded 
their product as sports entertainment, which is considered to acknowledge 
the product's roots in competitive sport and dramatic theater. The company's 
majority owner is its chairman and CEO, Vince McMahon. Along with his wife 
Linda, children Shane and Stephanie, and son-in-law Paul Levesque (known 
professionally as Triple H), the McMahon family holds approximately 70% 
of WWE's equity and 96% of the voting power. As of August 2014, due to 
ongoing problems with the company, Eminence Capital, a New York-based hedge 
fund, acquired 9.6% stake of WWE while the McMahon family retains 90.4% 
interest.[15] The current entity, incorporated on February 21, 1980, was 
previously known as Titan Sports, Inc., founded in 1979 in South Yarmouth, 
Massachusetts. It acquired Capitol Wrestling Corporation (the holding company 
for the World Wrestling Federation, WWF) in 1982. Titan was renamed World 
Wrestling Federation, Inc. in 1998, then World Wrestling Federation Entertainment, 
Inc. in 1999, and finally World Wrestling Entertainment, Inc. in 2002. 
Since 2011, the company has officially branded itself solely as WWE though 
the company's legal name was not changed.[16][17] WWE's origins can be 
traced back as far as 1952 when Roderick James "Jess" McMahon and Toots 
Mondt created the Capitol Wrestling Corporation Ltd. (CWC), which joined 
the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) in 1953. McMahon, who was a successful 
boxing promoter, began working with Tex Rickard in 1926. With the help 
of Rickard, he began promoting boxing at the third Madison Square Garden. 
It was not the first time he had promoted wrestling cards, as he had already 
done so during the 1910s. In November 1954, McMahon died and Ray Fabiani, 
one of Mondt's associates, brought in McMahon's son Vincent James.[18] 
The younger McMahon and Mondt were very successful and soon controlled 
approximately 70% of the NWA's booking, largely due to their dominance 
in the heavily populated Northeast region. In 1963, McMahon and Mondt had 
a dispute with the NWA over "Nature Boy" Buddy Rogers being booked to hold 
the NWA World Heavyweight Championship.[19] Both men left the company in 
protest and formed the WWWF in the process, awarding Rogers the new WWWF 
World Heavyweight Championship in April of that year. He lost the championship 
to Bruno Sammartino a month later on May 17, 1963, after suffering a heart 
attack a week before the match. Capitol operated the WWWF in a conservative 
manner compared to other pro wrestling territories:[20] it ran its major 
arenas monthly rather than weekly or bi-weekly, usually featuring a babyface 
champion wrestling various heels in programs that consisted of one to three 
matches.[21] After gaining a television program deal and hiring Lou Albano 
as a manager for Sammartino's heel opponents, the WWWF was doing sellout 
business by 1970. Mondt left Capitol in the late sixties and although the 
WWWF had withdrawn from the NWA, Vince McMahon, Sr. quietly re-joined in 
1971. Capitol renamed the World Wide Wrestling Federation to the World 
Wrestling Federation (WWF) in 1979.[22] Vincent J. McMahon's son, Vincent 
K. McMahon, and his wife Linda, established Titan Sports, Inc., in 1979 
in South Yarmouth, Massachusetts.[23][24] The company was incorporated 
on February 21, 1980, in the Cape Cod Coliseum offices. The younger McMahon 
bought Capitol from his father in 1982, effectively seizing control of 
the company. Seeking to make the WWF the premier wrestling promotion in 
the country, and eventually, the world, he began an expansion process that 
fundamentally changed the wrestling business.[25] At the annual meeting 
of the NWA in 1983, the McMahons and Capitol employee Jim Barnett all withdrew 
from the organization.[19] McMahon also worked to get WWF programming on 
syndicated television all across the United States. This angered other 
promoters and disrupted the well-established boundaries of the different 
wrestling promotions, eventually ending the territory system, which was 
in use since the founding of the NWA in the 1940s. In addition, the company 
used income generated by advertising, television deals, and tape sales 
to secure talent from rival promoters. In an interview with Sports Illustrated, 
McMahon noted: In the old days, there were wrestling fiefdoms all over 
the country, each with its own little lord in charge. Each little lord 
respected the rights of his neighboring little lord. No takeovers or raids 
were allowed. There were maybe 30 of these tiny kingdoms in the U.S. and 
if I hadn't bought out my dad, there would still be 30 of them, fragmented 
and struggling. I, of course, had no allegiance to those little lords.[25] 
McMahon gained significant traction when he hired AWA talent Hulk Hogan, 
who had achieved popularity outside of wrestling, notably for his appearance 
in the film Rocky III.[26] McMahon signed Roddy Piper as Hogan's rival, 
and then shortly afterward Jesse Ventura as an announcer. Other wrestlers 
joined the roster, such as Jimmy Snuka, Don Muraco, The Iron Sheik, Nikolai 
Volkoff, Junkyard Dog, Paul Orndorff, Greg Valentine, and Ricky Steamboat. 
Many of the wrestlers who would join later were former AWA or NWA talent. 
The WWF would tour nationally in a venture that would require a huge capital 
investment, one that placed the WWF on the verge of financial collapse. 
The future of McMahon's experiment came down to the success or failure 
of McMahon's groundbreaking concept, WrestleMania. WrestleMania was a major 
success, and was (and still is) marketed as the Super Bowl of professional 
wrestling. The concept of a wrestling supercard was nothing new in North 
America; the NWA had begun running Starrcade a few years prior. In McMahon's 
eyes, however, what separated WrestleMania from other supercards was that 
it was intended to be accessible to those who did not watch wrestling. 
He invited celebrities such as Mr. T, Muhammad Ali, and Cyndi Lauper to 
participate in the event, as well as securing a deal with MTV to provide 
coverage. The event and hype surrounding it led to the term Rock 'n' Wrestling 
Connection, due to the cross-promotion of pop-culture and professional 
wrestling. The WWF business expanded significantly on the shoulders of 
McMahon and his babyface hero Hulk Hogan for the next several years. The 
introduction of Saturday Night's Main Event on NBC in 1985 marked the first 
time that professional wrestling had been broadcast on network television 
since the 1950s, when the now-defunct DuMont Television Network broadcast 
matches of Vince McMahon Sr.'s Capitol Wrestling Corporation. The 1980s 
"Wrestling Boom" peaked with the WrestleMania III pay-per-view at the Pontiac 
Silverdome in 1987, which set an attendance record of 93,173, a record 
that stood for 29 years until WrestleMania 32.[27] A rematch of the WrestleMania 
III main event between WWF champion Hulk Hogan and André the Giant took 
place on The Main Event in 1988 and was seen by 33 million people, the 
most-watched wrestling match in North American television history.[28] 
In 1985, Titan moved its offices to Stamford, Connecticut, before the present 
building was built nearby in 1991. Subsequently, a new Titan Sports, Inc. 
(originally WWF, Inc.) was established in Delaware in 1987 and was consolidated 
with the Massachusetts entity in February 1988.[29] The WWF was hit with 
allegations of steroid abuse and distribution in 1992 and was followed 
by allegations of sexual harassment by WWF employees the following year.[30] 
McMahon was eventually exonerated, but it brought bad public relations 
for the WWF, and overall bad reputation. The steroid trial cost the company 
an estimated $5 million at a time of record low revenues. This helped drive 
many WWF wrestlers over to rival promotion World Championship Wrestling 
(WCW), including 1980s babyface hero Hulk Hogan. During this period, the 
WWF promoted wrestlers of a younger age comprising "The New Generation", 
featuring Shawn Michaels, Diesel, Razor Ramon, Bret Hart, and The Undertaker, 
in an effort to promote new talent into the spotlight. In January 1993, 
the WWF debuted its flagship cable program Monday Night Raw. WCW countered 
in September 1995 with its own Monday night program, Monday Nitro, which 
aired in the same time slot as Raw.[31] The two programs would trade wins 
in the ensuing ratings competition (known as the "Monday Night Wars") until 
mid-1996. At that point, Nitro began a nearly two-year ratings domination 
that was largely fueled by the introduction of the New World Order (nWo), 
a stable led by former WWF performers Hulk Hogan, Scott Hall (the former 
Razor Ramon), and Kevin Nash (the former Diesel).[32] As the Monday Night 
Wars continued between Raw Is War and WCW's Nitro, the WWF would transform 
itself from a family-friendly product into a more adult oriented product, 
known as the Attitude Era. The era was spearheaded by WWF VP Shane McMahon 
(son of owner Vince McMahon) and head writer Vince Russo. 1997 ended with 
McMahon facing real-life controversy following Bret Hart's controversial 
departure from the company, dubbed as the Montreal Screwjob.[33] This proved 
to be one of several founding factors in the launch of the Attitude Era 
as well as the creation of McMahon's on-screen character, "Mr. McMahon". 
Prior to the Montreal Screwjob, which took place at the 1997 Survivor Series, 
former WCW talent were being hired by the WWF, including Stone Cold Steve 
Austin, Mankind, and Vader. Austin was slowly brought in as the new face 
of the company despite being promoted as an antihero, starting with his 
"Austin 3:16" speech shortly after defeating Jake Roberts in the tournament 
finals at the King of the Ring pay-per-view in 1996.[34] On May 6, 1998, 
Titan Sports, Inc. was renamed World Wrestling Federation, Inc. It was 
renamed World Wrestling Federation Entertainment, Inc. a year later. On 
April 29, 1999, the WWF made its return to terrestrial television, airing 
a special program known as SmackDown! on the fledgling UPN network. The 
Thursday night show became a weekly series on August 26, 1999—competing 
directly with WCW's Thursday night program Thunder on TBS. In 2000, the 
WWF, in collaboration with television network NBC, announced the creation 
of the XFL, a new professional football league that debuted in 2001.[35] 
The league had high ratings for the first few weeks, but initial interest 
waned and its ratings plunged to dismally low levels (one of its games 
was the lowest-rated prime-time show in the history of American television). 
NBC walked out on the venture after only one season, but McMahon intended 
to continue alone. However, after being unable to reach a deal with UPN, 
McMahon shut down the XFL.[36] On October 19, 1999, World Wrestling Federation, 
Inc. launched an initial public offering as a publicly traded company, 
trading on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) with the issuance of stock 
then valued at $172.5 million.[37] The company has traded on the NYSE since 
its launch under ticker symbol WWE.[38] By the fall of 1999, the Attitude 
Era had turned the tide of the Monday Night Wars into WWF's favor. After 
Time Warner merged with AOL, Ted Turner's control over WCW was considerably 
reduced, and the newly merged company announced a complete lack of interest 
in professional wrestling as a whole, and decided to sell WCW in its entirety. 
Although Eric Bischoff, whom Time Warner fired as WCW president in October 
1999, was nearing a deal to purchase the company, in March 2001 McMahon 
acquired the rights to WCW's trademarks, tape library, contracts, and other 
properties from AOL Time Warner for a number reported to be around $7 million.[39] 
Shortly after WrestleMania X-Seven, the WWF launched the Invasion storyline 
integrating the incoming talent roster from WCW and Extreme Championship 
Wrestling (ECW). With this purchase, WWF now became by far the largest 
wrestling promotion in the world. The assets of ECW, which had folded after 
filing for bankruptcy protection in April 2001, were purchased by WWE in 
mid-2003.[40] On May 5, 2002, World Wrestling Federation Entertainment 
announced it was changing both its company name and the name of its wrestling 
promotion to World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). Although mainly caused 
by an unfavorable ruling in its dispute with the World Wide Fund for Nature 
regarding the "WWF" initialism, the company noted it provided an opportunity 
to emphasize its focus on entertainment.[41] On April 7, 2011, WWE corporate 
announced that the company was ceasing use of the full name World Wrestling 
Entertainment and would henceforth refer to itself solely as WWE, making 
the latter an orphan initialism. This was said to reflect WWE's global 
entertainment expansion away from the ring with the ultimate goal of acquiring 
entertainment companies and putting a focus on television, live events, 
and film production. WWE noted that their new company model was put into 
effect with the relaunch of Tough Enough, being a non–scripted program 
(contrary to the scripted nature of professional wrestling) and with the 
launch of the WWE Network (at the time scheduled to launch in 2012; later 
pushed back to 2014). However, the legal name of the company remains as 
World Wrestling Entertainment, Inc.[17] In March 2002, WWE decided to create 
two separate rosters, each appearing on one of their main programs, Raw 
and SmackDown!, due to the overabundance of talent left over from the Invasion 
storyline. This was dubbed as the "Brand Extension". Despite much of the 
originally drafted talent departing by 2004, WWE continued to separate 
the shows, taking on younger talent, and holding a draft lottery every 
year. On May 26, 2006, WWE announced the relaunch of ECW as a WWE brand. 
The new ECW program aired until February 16, 2010.[42] Beginning with the 
August 29, 2011 episode of Raw, it was announced that Raw would feature 
talent from both Raw and SmackDown, and would be known as Raw Supershow 
(the "Supershow" suffix would be dropped on July 23, 2012). Championships 
previously exclusive to one show or the other were available for wrestlers 
from any show to compete for; the "Supershow" format would mark the end 
of the brand extension, as all programming and live events since the initial 
announcement was made have featured the full WWE roster.[43] In 2013, the 
company built a sports medicine and training center in east Orange County, 
Florida in partnership with Full Sail University in Winter Park, Florida. 
The training facility is targeted at career development for wrestlers and 
athletic development.[44] On May 25, 2016, WWE announced the re-launch 
of the brand extension. Dubbed the "New Era", Raw and SmackDown each featured 
their own unique rosters with a draft to determine rosters. SmackDown also 
moved from Thursdays to Tuesday nights, which began on July 19, and airs 
live instead of the previous pre-recorded format.[45] On February 24, 2014, 
WWE launched a 24/7 streaming network. The network includes past and present 
WWE shows, pay-per-views, and shows from the WWE Library.[46] The network 
reached 1,000,000 subscribers on January 27, 2015 under one year of its 
launch, with WWE claiming that it was thus "the fastest-growing digital 
subscription service ever".[47] WWE uses a variety of special terms in 
defining their product, such as describing the wrestling industry as sports 
entertainment. The fan base is referred to as "the WWE Universe". A wrestler 
is known as a "WWE Superstar", while retired wrestlers are known as "WWE 
Legends".[48] On October 19, 1999, WWF, which had been owned previously 
by parent company Titan Sports, launched an initial public offering as 
a publicly traded company, trading on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) 
with the issuance of stock then valued at $172.5 million.[37] The company 
has traded on the NYSE since its launch under ticker symbol WWE.[38] The 
company has actively marketed itself as a publicly traded company through 
presentations at investor conferences and other investor relations initiatives.[49] 
In June 2003, the company began paying a dividend on its shares of $0.04 
per share.[50] In June 2011, the company cut its dividend from $0.36 to 
$0.12.[51] In 2014, concerns about the company's viability caused wide 
fluctuations in its share price.[52] As of 2015, the company's Board of 
Directors has eight members: Vince McMahon, the company's Chairman of the 
Board and CEO; Stuart U. Goldfarb, President of Fullbridge, Inc.; Patricia 
A. Gottesman, former President and CEO of Crimson Hexagon; David Kenen, 
the former Executive Vice President of the Hallmark Channel; Joseph H. 
Perkins, former President of Communications Consultants; Frank A. Riddick, 
III, CEO of Shale-Inland Group, Inc.; Jeffrey R. Speed, former Executive 
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Six Flags; Laureen Ong, former 
President of Travel Channel; Stephanie McMahon, Chief Brand Officer of 
WWE; Paul "Triple H" Levesque, Executive Vice-president, Talent, live events, 
and creative.[53] WWE signs most of their talent to exclusive contracts, 
meaning talent can appear or perform only on WWE programming and events. 
They are not permitted to appear or perform for another promotion, unless 
special arrangements are made beforehand. WWE keeps all wrestlers' salary, 
employment length, benefits, and all other contract details strictly private.[54] 
WWE classifies its professional wrestlers as independent contractors and 
not as employees. A study by the University of Louisville Law Review found 
that after applying the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) 20-factor test, 
16 factors "clearly indicate that wrestlers are employees". However, as 
a result of WWE terming them as independent contractors, "the wrestlers 
are denied countless benefits to which they would otherwise be entitled".[55] 
The World Wrestling Federation had a drug-testing policy in place as early 
as 1987, initially run by an in-house administrator. In 1991, wrestlers 
were subjected to independent testings for anabolic steroids for the first 
time.[56] The independent testing was ceased in 1996.[57] The Talent Wellness 
Program is a comprehensive drug, alcohol, and cardiac screening program 
initiated in February 2006, shortly after the sudden death of one of their 
highest profile talents, 38-year-old Eddie Guerrero.[58] The policy tests 
for recreational drug use and abuse of prescription medication, including 
anabolic steroids.[58] Under the guidelines of the policy, talent is also 
tested annually for pre-existing or developing cardiac issues. The drug 
testing is handled by Aegis Sciences Corporation; the cardiac evaluations 
are handled by New York Cardiology Associates P.C.[58] The Wellness Policy 
requires that all talent "under contract to WWE who regularly perform in-ring 
services as a professional sports entertainer" undergo testing; however, 
part-timers are exempt from testing.[59] After the double-murder and suicide 
committed by one of its performers, Chris Benoit, with a possible link 
to steroid abuse encouraged by WWE, the United States House Committee on 
Oversight and Government Reform requested that WWE turn over any material 
regarding its talent wellness policy.[60] In August 2007, WWE and its employees 
defended the program in the wake of several busts of illegal pharmacy that 
linked WWE performers to steroid purchases even after the policy was put 
into place. Ten professional wrestlers were suspended for violating the 
Wellness Policy after reports emerged they were all customers of Signature 
Pharmacy in Orlando, Florida. According to a statement attributed to WWE 
attorney Jerry McDevitt, an eleventh wrestler was later added to the suspension 
list.[61][62][63] Because of the Wellness Policy, physicians were able 
to diagnose one of its performers with a heart ailment that would otherwise 
likely have gone unnoticed until it was too late. In August 2007, then-reigning 
United States Champion Montel Vontavious Porter (real name Hassan Assad) 
was diagnosed with Wolff–Parkinson–White syndrome,[64] which can be potentially 
fatal if gone undiagnosed. The ailment was discovered while Assad was going 
through a routine Wellness Policy checkup. On September 13, 2010, WWE updated 
their list of banned substances to include muscle relaxers.[65] In 1994, 
Titan Sports had entered into an agreement with the World Wide Fund for 
Nature (also trademarked WWF), an environmental organization, regarding 
Titan's use of the "WWF" acronym, which both organizations had been using 
since at least March 1979. Under the agreement, Titan had agreed to cease 
using the written acronym "WWF" in connection with its wrestling promotion, 
and to minimize (though not eliminate) spoken uses of "WWF" on its broadcasts, 
particularly in scripted comments. In exchange, the environmental group 
(and its national affiliates) agreed to drop any pending litigation against 
Titan, and furthermore agreed not to challenge Titan's use of the full 
"World Wrestling Federation" name or the promotion's then-current logo.[66] 
In 2000, the World Wide Fund for Nature sued World Wrestling Federation 
Entertainment Inc. in the United Kingdom, alleging various violations of 
the 1994 agreement.[67] The Court of Appeal agreed that the promotion company 
had violated the 1994 agreement, particularly in regards to merchandising. 
The last televised event to market the WWF logo was the UK-based pay-per-view 
Insurrextion 2002. On May 5, 2002, the company launched its "Get The F 
Out" marketing campaign and changed all references on its website from 
"WWF" to "WWE", while switching the URL from WWF.com to WWE.com.[41] The 
next day, a press release announced the official name change from World 
Wrestling Federation Entertainment, Inc. to World Wrestling Entertainment, 
Inc., or WWE, and the change was publicized later that day during a telecast 
of Monday Night Raw, which was broadcast from the Hartford Civic Center 
in Hartford, Connecticut. Following the name change, the use of the WWF 
"scratch" logo became prohibited on all WWE properties. Additionally, past 
references to the WWF trademark and initials in 'specified circumstances' 
became censored.[68] Despite the litigation, WWE was still permitted use 
of the original WWF logo, which was used from 1979 through 1994 and had 
been explicitly exempted under the 1994 agreement, as well as the similar 
"New WWF Generation" logo, which was used from 1994 through 1998. Furthermore, 
the company could still make use of the full "World Wrestling Federation" 
and "World Wrestling Federation Entertainment" names without consequence. 
In 2003, WWE won a limited decision to continue marketing certain classic 
video games from THQ and Jakks Pacific that contained the WWF "scratch" 
logo.[69] However, the packaging on those games had all WWF references 
replaced with WWE. Starting with the 1,000th episode of Raw in July 2012, 
the WWF "scratch" logo is no longer censored in archival footage due to 
WWE reaching a new settlement with the World Wide Fund for Nature.[70] 
In addition, the WWF initials are no longer censored when spoken or when 
written in plain text in archival footage. Since then, full-length matches 
and other segments featuring the WWF initials and "scratch" logo have been 
added to the WWE website and the WWE Classics on Demand service. This also 
includes WWE Home Video releases since October 2012, starting with the 
re-release of Brock Lesnar: Here Comes The Pain.[71] In exchange, WWE is 
no longer permitted to use the WWF initials or logo in any new, original 
footage, packaging, or advertising, with any old-school logos for retro-themed 
programming now using the original WWF logo, but modified without the F.[72] 
Harry "Slash" Grivas and Roderick Kohn filed a lawsuit against WWE in June 
2003 due to the music being used for its programming and DVDs without consent 
or payment. It also asserted violation of the rights to original music 
used by ECW that WWE had been using during the Invasion storyline of 2001. 
The case was resolved on both sides with a settlement that saw WWE purchase 
the catalogue outright in January 2005.[73] In addition to licensing wrestling 
and performers' likenesses to companies such as Acclaim, THQ/2K Sports, 
and Mattel to produce video games and action figures, WWE has branched 
out into other areas of interest in order to market their product. In March 
2015, WWE announced a partnership with Authentic Brands Group to relaunch 
Tapout, formerly a major MMA-related clothing line, as a more general "lifestyle 
fitness" brand. The apparel, for men and women, was first released in spring 
of 2016. WWE markets the brand through various products, including beverages, 
supplements, and gyms.[80] WWE will hold a 50% stake in the brand, and 
so will advertise it regularly across all its platforms, hoping to give 
it one billion impressions a month, and take some of the fitness market 
from Under Armour. WWE wrestlers and staff have been shown wearing various 
