WWOR-TV, channel 9, is the flagship station of the MyNetworkTV programming 
service, licensed to Secaucus, New Jersey, United States, and serving the 
New York City television market. It is owned by the Fox Television Stations 
division of 21st Century Fox as a sister station to Fox's flagship station, 
WNYW (channel 5). Its studios and main offices are located in Secaucus, 
south of Route 3 east of the Meadowlands Sports Complex, though some internal 
operations are handled at WNYW's studios at the Fox Television Center in 
the Yorkville neighborhood of Manhattan. Its transmitter is located atop 
the Empire State Building. The station is available to Dish Network subscribers 
as part of the satellite provider's superstations package (available to 
grandfathered subscribers that purchased the a la carte tier before Dish 
halted sales of the package to new customers in September 2013), except 
in markets where the local MyNetworkTV affiliate invokes syndication exclusivity 
to block access to WWOR's programming within the market. Channel 9 signed 
on the air on October 11, 1949 as WOR-TV. It was owned by the Bamberger 
Broadcasting Service (a division of R. H. Macy and Company and named after 
the Bamberger's department store chain), which also operated WOR radio 
(710 AM) and WOR-FM (98.7, now WEPN-FM).[2] Exactly ten months earlier, 
Bamberger launched Washington, D.C.'s fourth television station, WOIC, 
also on channel 9. WOR-TV entered the New York market as the last of the 
city's VHF stations to sign on, and one of three independents – the others 
being WPIX (channel 11) and Newark, New Jersey-based WATV (channel 13, 
later WNTA-TV). On WOR-TV's opening night, a welcome address was read by 
WOR radio's morning host, John B. Gambling. However, the audio portion 
of the speech was not heard because of a technical glitch.[citation needed] 
The problem was fixed and Gambling repeated the message later that evening, 
prior to the station's sign-off. That first broadcast and other early WOR-TV 
shows emanated from the New Amsterdam Roof Theatre, located west of Times 
Square. For a short time, the station's transmitter operated from WOR TV 
Tower in North Bergen, New Jersey and was later moved to the Empire State 
Building. In 1949, the station moved uptown to the newly constructed "9 
Television Square" facility on West 67th Street (near the present-day location 
of WABC-TV's studios). At the start of 1950, Bamberger Broadcasting changed 
its name to General Teleradio.[3] Later that year, WOIC was sold to a joint 
venture of the Washington Post and CBS, who would change that station's 
callsign to WTOP-TV (it is now WUSA).[4] In 1953, WOR-TV began operating 
a separate studio for news and special events programming located on the 
83rd floor of the Empire State Building.[5] In 1952, Macy's/Bamberger's 
merged the WOR stations with the General Tire and Rubber Company, which 
already had broadcasting interests in three cities through two other subsidiaries: 
the regional Yankee Radio Network and WNAC-AM–FM–TV in Boston; and the 
Don Lee Broadcasting System, which operated KHJ-AM–FM–TV in Los Angeles 
and KFRC-AM–FM in San Francisco. The subsidiaries were then brought together 
under the General Teleradio name.[6][7] The main impetus for the merger 
was to give General Tire a controlling share in Mutual Radio Network, which 
was affiliated with and partially owned by WOR and other stations. The 
merger also raised speculation that Mutual would launch a television network, 
plans that were discussed since before WOR-TV went on the air but ultimately 
did not come to fruition. In 1955, General Tire purchased RKO Radio Pictures, 
giving the company's TV stations access to RKO's film library, and in 1959, 
General Tire's broadcasting and film divisions were renamed as RKO General. 
During the early years of RKO General ownership, WOR-TV moved back to Times 
Square, and closer to its radio station sisters. Channel 9's studios were 
co-located with WOR radio at 1440 Broadway (near West 40th Street) for 
several years. During the 1950s and early 1960s, all three of New York's 
independents struggled to find competitive and acceptable programming. 
The field would increase by one in 1956 when former DuMont flagship station 
WABD (channel 5, later WNEW-TV and now WNYW) became an independent. During 
this era, WOR-TV's programming was comparable to its rivals, with a blend 
of movies, children's programs, cancelled TV series which had previously 
run on one of the networks and public affairs shows. In 1962, the field 
of independent stations was narrowed to three, as WOR-TV and its competition 
benefited from the sale of WNTA-TV to the non-profit Educational Broadcasting 
Corporation, who would convert channel 13 into non-commercial educational 
station WNDT (which is now WNET). For much of the 1960s, WOR-TV was a standard 
independent station with a schedule composed of some local public affairs 
shows, off-network programs, children's shows such as Friendly Giant (which 
later moved to WNDT) and Romper Room (which moved to the station from WNEW-TV 
in 1966), sporting events, and a large catalog of movies, some of which 
came from the RKO Radio Pictures film library. Until 1990, the station 
had a tradition of showing King Kong; Son of Kong and Mighty Joe Young 
on Thanksgiving, and Godzilla films on Thanksgiving and the day after. 
In 1962, nostalgia maven Joe Franklin moved his daily talk program to WOR-TV, 
after a 12-year run on WABC-TV. The Joe Franklin Show ended on August 6, 
1993, making it one of the longest-running programs in television history, 
local or national. The long-running public affairs show Firing Line began 
on WOR-TV in 1966 and ran on the station until 1971, after which its host, 
William F. Buckley, Jr., moved the program to public television where the 
program aired until it ended in 1999. In 1968, the station continued to 
maintain offices at 1440 Broadway, while the station moved to new studio 
facilities two blocks north at 1481 Broadway. By the early 1970s, WNEW-TV 
evolved into the leading station for cartoons and sitcoms, while WPIX aired 
a similar format though with more movies. In the early 1970s, WOR-TV had 
shows such as The Beverly Hillbillies, The Dick Van Dyke Show, Gilligan's 
Island and The Avengers. But channel 9 was behind the other two independents 
in the local ratings. Beginning in 1971, the station began gradually seeking 
a different programming strategy – one that was more adult-oriented with 
a heavy emphasis on films, reruns of hour-long network dramas, game shows 
and sports. The station also gradually phased out most sitcoms and all 
children's programming with the exception of Romper Room. It was also the 
first New York City station to have a 12 p.m. newscast on weekdays, in 
addition to producing several hours a day of local talk shows (such as 
The Joe Franklin Show, Straight Talk and public affairs shows such as Meet 
the Mayors, titles that were shared by other RKO General television stations). 
Later in the 1970s, WOR-TV looked towards the United Kingdom for alternative 
offerings. On September 6, 1976, WOR-TV offered a week of programs from 
Thames Television during prime time; many of these shows had never before 
been seen on American television, including the first U.S. telecast of 
The Benny Hill Show, and an airing of an episode of Man About the House, 
which would be adapted by ABC as Three's Company the following year.[8] 
WOR-TV also aired episodes of the ITV musical drama Rock Follies [9][10] 
and the BBC science-fiction series Doctor Who during this period. On April 
5, 1980, WOR-TV presented Japan Tonight!, a seven-hour block of programs 
from Japan's Tokyo Broadcasting System, featuring shows that were either 
dubbed or subtitled in English.[11] During this period, various sports 
telecasts aired on most nights in prime time, with feature films running 
on nights where sports did not air under the Million Dollar Movie banner. 
Despite its ambitious programming, WOR-TV was perceived by people that 
preferred a more traditional independent to be an also-ran, even though 
the station was very profitable for RKO General. In 1984, WOR-TV began 
moving classic sitcoms like Bewitched, Burns & Allen, I Dream Of Jeannie, 
and others into its weekday lineup, focused slightly less on sports, and 
added more off network drama shows to the lineup. The station also pulled 
back religious programming as well, pushing it earlier in the morning. 
With the advent of cable and satellite-delivered television, independent 
stations were being uplinked for regional and national distribution, thus 
becoming "superstations". In April 1979, Syracuse, New York-based Eastern 
Microwave, Inc. began distributing WOR-TV to cable and C-band satellite 
subscribers across the United States, joining WTBS (now WPCH-TV) in Atlanta 
and WGN-TV in Chicago as national superstations. While WOR-TV was gaining 
national exposure, a battle for the station's survival – and that of its 
owner – was well underway. In 1975, RKO applied for renewal of its license 
to operate WOR-TV. The Federal Communications Commission conditioned this 
renewal on that of its Boston sister station, WNAC-TV. In 1980, the FCC 
stripped RKO of WNAC-TV's license due to a litany of offenses dating back 
to the 1960s, but ultimately because RKO had withheld evidence of corporate 
misconduct by General Tire. The decision meant that RKO lost WOR-TV's license 
and that of Los Angeles sister station KHJ-TV.[12] However, an appeals 
court ruled that the FCC had erred in tying WOR-TV and KHJ-TV's renewals 
to WNAC-TV, and ordered new proceedings. RKO soon found itself under renewed 
pressure from the FCC, which began soliciting applications for all of the 
company's broadcast licenses in February 1983.[13] In order to buy itself 
some time, RKO (with the help of New Jersey senator Bill Bradley) persuaded 
the U.S. Congress to pass a law requiring the FCC to automatically renew 
the license of any VHF station that moved its license to a state not served 
by a commercial VHF station. New Jersey and Delaware were the only states 
not to be served by a commercial VHF station, and there were complaints 
for many years that New Jersey in particular had been "underserved" by 
VHF stations from the New York City and Philadelphia markets (New Jersey 
was left without any commercial VHF allocations located within the state 
due to the 1962 conversion of Newark's channel 13 to a non-commercial outlet). 
RKO was able to retain WOR-TV by moving the channel 9 license to Secaucus, 
New Jersey (seven miles west of Manhattan) on April 20, 1983. However, 
for all intents and purposes, it remained a New York City station. WOR 
radio had originally been licensed to Newark when it signed on in 1922; 
while it moved its studios across the Hudson River in 1926, it remained 
licensed in Newark until 1941.[citation needed] One of the FCC's conditions 
of renewing channel 9's license required RKO to also move the station's 
main studio to New Jersey. Three years after its city of license was moved 
to New Jersey, WOR-TV would establish a physical presence in that state 
with the opening of the Nine Broadcast Plaza studio facility on January 
13, 1986. The FCC also required WWOR to increase its coverage of events 
on the New Jersey side of the market. One month later, the New Jersey State 
Senate petitioned the FCC to approve an extension of the channel 9 signal 
into southern New Jersey. Because of various other issues, one of which 
would be the fact that rights to most syndicated programs would interfere 
with the local broadcast rights to these shows on Philadelphia stations, 
the request was denied. The move to New Jersey did little to relieve the 
regulatory pressure on RKO. Seeing the handwriting on the wall, RKO put 
channel 9 up for sale in 1985. Westinghouse Broadcasting,[14] Chris-Craft 
Industries,[15] and a joint venture of Cox Enterprises and MCA/Universal 
emerged as the leading suitors for WOR-TV; the station was sold to the 
Cox/MCA group in late 1986 for US$387 million.[16] Cox later backed out 
due to disagreements between the two firms on who would be responsible 
for running the station. MCA took control of WOR-TV on April 21, 1987. 
The sale came just in the nick of time for RKO: two months after MCA closed 
on the purchase, an administrative law judge recommended that RKO be forced 
out of broadcasting altogether due to a litany of misconduct. Eventually, 
WOR radio would be sold to Hartford, Connecticut-based Buckley Broadcasting, 
and WRKS-FM would go to Summit Broadcasting. Upon taking control, MCA added 
an extra W to its call letters calling itself as WWOR-TV on April 29, 1987. 
MCA knew it had to change the call letters, but still wanted to trade on 
the 65-year heritage of the WOR calls in the New York area; programming 
stayed pretty much the same, while the RKO-era "dotted nine" logo was replaced 
by a new "red nine". That fall, WWOR-TV relaunched as a station perceived 
as different from a year prior, though only about 6 hours of programming 
a day actually changed. A new, all-CGI look was created for the station, 
with a new "Venetian-blinds nine"; movie and special presentations were 
preceded by a new, more dramatic intro, while a new, three-pointed triangle 
was used in the main ident and in the first intro for The News at Ten, 
representing the Tri-State area; the RKO-era announcers stayed on. The 
station dropped most of its public affairs shows, Romper Room was cut back 
to a half-hour and moved to 6:00 a.m., all religious shows except for the 
Sunday Mass were dropped, cartoons were added to the station's morning 
lineup, and stronger syndicated shows were added in the early evenings. 
Late morning timeslots consisted of classic sitcoms and afternoons continued 
to consist of game shows, drama series and movies – programs seen in both 
dayparts were largely those held over from the station's later years under 
RKO ownership. Later that fall, in primetime, the Million Dollar Movie 
was relegated to weekends in favor of Morton Downey Jr.'s controversial 
new talk show, while the 8:00 newscast was moved to 10:00 p.m., and expanded 
to one hour (to emphasize this, it was briefly titled The News at Ten; 
this did not last long and by 1988, it became Channel 9 News). The overhaul 
continued in 1988 and 1989, when it added the locally produced kids' show 
Steampipe Alley, and more evening sitcoms, including among others, reruns 
of NBC's top-rated sitcom The Cosby Show, Columbia Pictures Television's 
Who's The Boss? and 227, as well as MCA/Universal-sourced programming including 
The Munsters Today, Out of This World, My Secret Identity, Bionic Six, 
and The New Lassie. WWOR-TV also borrowed program formats used on the Westinghouse 
stations: a short-lived version of Evening Magazine aired in primetime, 
and a locally produced talk show called People Are Talking ran at 11 a.m. 
That show would later change its title to 9 Broadcast Plaza (named after 
the station's Secaucus studio location), and then to The Richard Bey Show 
for syndication.[citation needed] During this time, the studios were a 
hotbed of production, including the aforementioned local shows, The Morton 
Downey Jr. Show (which was nationally syndicated by then-sister firm MCA 
TV), and The Howard Stern Show hosted by New York radio personality Howard 
Stern from 1990 to 1992. Because of this, the news had to be moved to the 
newsroom, and it would not return to having its own set until the UPN era. 
In 1989, the FCC passed the "Syndicated Exclusivity Rights" rule (or "SyndEx") 
into law – which required cable providers to block out certain syndicated 
programs on out-of-market stations that stations claim the rights to air 
in a particular market. In order to lighten the burden on cable providers 
as a result of this law, Eastern Microwave acquired the rights to programs 
that no stations claimed in-market exclusivity to for broadcast on WWOR's 
national feed to replace programs that could not be aired nationally. Most 
of the programs came from the Universal and Quinn Martin libraries, along 
with some shows from the Christian Science Monitor's television service, 
as well as some holdover shows that had aired on the local New York feed 
before the SyndEx law's passage. Eastern Microwave would eventually launch 
a separate feed for satellite and cable subscribers on January 1, 1990, 
called the "WWOR EMI Service".[citation needed] By the early 1990s, WWOR 
and WPIX began to be replaced on many cable systems by the its superstation 
feed of WGN-TV.[17][18] In the fall of 1990, WWOR-TV began branding itself 
as Universal 9 on-air, highlighting its association with the MCA/Universal 
entertainment empire. However, MCA's ownership of the station ended with 
the company's purchase by Osaka, Japan-based Matsushita Electric Industrial 
Co. Ltd., which is now known as Panasonic. Since FCC regulations do not 
allow foreign companies to own more than a 25% interest in a television 
station, MCA spun off the assets of WWOR-TV into a new company called Pinelands, 
Incorporated on January 1, 1991. However, the station continued to brand 
itself as Universal 9 on-air until early 1992. On March 30, 1992, Disney 
Studios agreed to sell KCAL to Pineland, Inc. for a 45% ownership stake 
in Pineland, so as to have interest in TV stations in both large markets, 
Los Angeles and New York City, allowing for increased original programming.[19] 
Instead Pineland agreed to an unsolicited bid in May from Chris-Craft Industries's 
BHC Communications subsidiary thus ending the planned business merger with 
Disney's KCAL.[20] In 1993, BHC aligned its independent stations with the 
Prime Time Entertainment Network.[21][22] WWOR carried Spelling Premiere 
Network at its launch in August 1994.[23] In 1994, Chris-Craft and its 
broadcasting subsidiary, BHC Communications, and Viacom's newly acquired 
subsidiary Paramount Pictures partnered to form the United Paramount Network, 
which debuted on January 16, 1995. At the network's launch, WWOR-TV was 
UPN's "flagship" station. However, UPN did not allow WWOR's superstation 
feed to carry the network's programs nationally (in contrast, The WB allowed 
WGN-TV to air network programming on cable feed during that network's first 
four years on the air). In the 1990s, the station continued with a large 
amount of younger-skewing talk shows, reality programming, some sitcoms 
in evenings, and syndicated cartoons during the morning hours.[citation 
needed] On January 1, 1997, with only a month's advance warning, Advance 
Entertainment Corporation, which had purchased the satellite distribution 
rights to WWOR from Eastern Microwave a few months earlier, stopped uplinking 
the national version. The EMI Service's transponder space was sold to Discovery 
Communications for the then six-month-old Animal Planet.[24][25] Amid outcries 
from satellite dish owners, National Programming Service, LLC uplinked 
the station again exclusively for satellite subscribers. The national feed 
was once again the same feed as the New York market feed. NPS dropped WWOR 
in 1999, in favor of Pax TV, but Dish Network still carries the New York 
feed of WWOR as part of its superstations package except in areas where 
the local UPN (and later, MyNetworkTV) affiliate invoked SyndEx to block 
the feed.[citation needed] In 2000, Chris-Craft announced that it was selling 
its television stations. It was believed that Viacom, which had purchased 
Chris-Craft's half of the network that year not long after buying CBS – 
gaining full control of UPN (and effectively stripping WWOR of its status 
as an owned-and-operated station of the network in the process), would 
buy the stations. However, Viacom lost its bid for the group to News Corporation 
on August 12, 2000 in a $5.5 billion deal,[26] making WWOR-TV a sister 
station to longtime rival WNYW – creating a unique situation in which the 
largest affiliate station of one network was owned by the operator of another 
network. While some cast doubt on UPN's future, Fox quickly cut a new affiliation 
deal with UPN.[citation needed] On September 11, 2001, the transmitter 
facilities of WWOR-TV, eight other New York City television stations and 
several radio stations, were destroyed when two hijacked airplanes crashed 
into and destroyed the World Trade Center towers. The attacks delayed the 
closing of the Chris-Craft deal for several days. With its broadcast signal 
shut down, WWOR fed its signal directly to cable and satellite systems, 
running wall-to-wall coverage of the attacks from CNN and later the Fox 
News Channel; channel 9 resumed regular programming on September 17, 2001. 
The transmitter has since been relocated to an antenna located atop the 
Empire State Building (where the transmitter had been based prior to 1975) 
along with most of the other major New York City stations.[citation needed] 
Fox began integrating the operations of its two stations soon afterwards. 
In the fall of 2001, the Fox Kids weekday afternoon block moved to WWOR-TV 
from WNYW, while the station also ran UPN's Disney's One Too during the 
morning hours. Channel 9 was New York City's last remaining commercial 
station to air children's programming on both weekday mornings and afternoons, 
an ironic twist from 20 years earlier; however, Fox later discontinued 
the Fox Kids weekday block in January 2002 while UPN ended its cartoon 
block in August 2003, WWOR then picked up syndicated cartoons in the fall 
of 2003 in the 7 to 9 a.m. slot (and later until 8 a.m.), before dropping 
them in 2006. This made WWOR-TV the last commercial station to run any 
cartoons on weekdays. This will be the second time the station phased out 
cartoons in favor of mandated children's programing which WWOR has aired 
in its early years. WNYW also placed several of its underperforming syndicated 
shows on WWOR, and cherry-picked channel 9's stronger programs for broadcast 
on channel 5's schedule. Currently, WWOR offers several "double-runs" of 
WNYW's programs, but the two stations' individual schedules (outside of 
network programming) are much different.[citation needed] In 2004, Fox 
Television Stations announced that it would shut down WWOR-TV's Secaucus 
facilities and move its operations to WNYW's facility at the Fox Television 
Center in Manhattan. WNYW had already been handling some of WWOR's internal 
operations for some time before then. Fox planned to keep 9 Broadcast Plaza 
as a satellite relay station for WNYW and WWOR (the facility also performed 
master control operations for Baltimore's MyNetworkTV affiliate WUTB until 
locally based Sinclair Broadcast Group purchased WUTB from Fox in 2013). 
While some office functions were merged, plans for a full move to Manhattan 
were scuttled later that year due to pressure from New Jersey Congressman 
Steve Rothman (whose congressional district included Secaucus) and Senator 
Frank Lautenberg. The two lawmakers contended that if WWOR moved its operations 
back across the Hudson to New York, it would be violating its conditions 
of license. According to Rothman, WWOR's license specifically requires 
that its main studio be based in New Jersey.[27][28] Even without this 
to consider, a full merger of WNYW and WWOR's operations would have likely 
resulted in channel 9's news department being at the very least downsized 
it to the point that it would not be able to adequately cover news events 
focused on New Jersey, if not shut down altogether. The company also considered 
moving WNYW's operations to Secaucus, but to date both stations continue 
to maintain separate studio facilities.[citation needed] On February 22, 
2006, News Corporation announced the launch of a new "sixth" network called 
MyNetworkTV, which would be operated by Fox Television Stations and its 
syndication division Twentieth Television. MyNetworkTV was created to compete 
against another upstart network that would launch at the same time that 
September, The CW (an amalgamated network that was originally consisted 
primarily of UPN and The WB's higher-rated programs) as well as to give 
UPN and WB stations that were not mentioned as becoming CW affiliates another 
option besides converting to independent stations.[29][30] WPIX, which 
had been a WB affiliate since 1995, was announced as The CW's New York 
City area affiliate as part of a 10-year affiliation deal with channel 
11's parent company Tribune Broadcasting. The network's officials were 
on record as preferring the "strongest" stations among The WB and UPN's 
affiliates, none of which included any of Fox's UPN-affiliated stations 
– locally, WPIX had been well ahead of WWOR-TV in overall viewership for 
some time. The day after the announcement of The CW's formation (January 
25, 2006), Fox removed all network references from the on-air branding 
of its UPN affiliates, and stopped promoting UPN programs altogether. WWOR 
accordingly changed its branding from "UPN 9" to "WWOR 9" (although the 
station was referred to on-air as simply "9"), and altered its logo to 
only feature the boxed "9" with a small red strip on the left side. WWOR 
had just introduced a new graphics package for its newscasts and a revised 
logo almost three weeks prior, with UPN branding.[citation needed] With 
the impending switch to MyNetworkTV, channel 9's on-air branding was changed 
to My 9 beginning on April 4, with the new brand being introduced during 
Nets and Yankees game telecasts; two weeks later on April 17, WWOR incorporated 
the My 9 name into the station's remaining branding elements, including 
news. On June 2, WWOR changed its logo again, this time adopting one similar 
to the MyNetworkTV logo presented at the launch announcement. Despite MyNetworkTV's 
announcement that its launch date would be September 5, 2006, UPN continued 
to broadcast on stations across the country until September 15, 2006. While 
some UPN affiliates that switched to MyNetworkTV aired the final two weeks 
of UPN programming outside its regular primetime period, WWOR and the rest 
of the network's Fox-owned affiliates dropped UPN's programming entirely 
on August 31, 2006.[citation needed] On December 15, 2011, WWOR introduced 
an official mascot, C.More (pronounced SEE-more, and corresponding with 
its new slogan, "C.More My9"), an anthropomorphic "My9" logo featured on 
station promotions. WWOR started a Facebook[31] and Twitter[32] page dedicated 
to C.More, and also uploaded a YouTube video that C.More "recorded via 
webcam".[33] Localized versions of the C.More mascot have since been used 
on Fox's other MyNetworkTV owned-and-operated stations.[citation needed] 
In recent years C more appears less and since has been removed from the 
promo ads. Around 2015 the my 9 box was removed leaving only its white 
type with an modernized version was use simply as my9 which the inside 
9 log is still visible thus leaving out the exterior being used by previous 
owners. On October 15, 2010, News Corporation pulled WWOR, WNYW, Fox Business 
Network, Fox Deportes, and National Geographic Wild from Cablevision systems 
in the New York City Tri-State area due to a dispute between Fox and Cablevision 
in which Cablevision claimed that News Corporation demanded $150 million 
a year to renew its carriage of 12 Fox-owned channels.[34][35] News Corporation 
responded to Cablevision's claims, stating that "Cablevision has refused 
to recognize how much [its subscribers] value our programming."[36] Cablevision 
offered to submit to binding arbitration on October 14, 2010, though News 
Corporation rejected Cablevision's proposal, stating that it would "reward 
Cablevision for refusing to negotiate fairly". WWOR, WNYW and the three 
cable channels were restored on October 30, 2010, when Cablevision and 
News Corporation struck a new carriage deal.[citation needed] Before August 
2014, the station awaited renewal of its broadcast license since 2007,[37][38] 
the same year that two petitions to deny the license's renewal were submitted.[39][40] 
According to claims from U.S. Senator Frank Lautenberg and media observers, 
who filed a complaint with the FCC in November 2009, WWOR-TV's performance 
was "clearly inadequate to meet its public interest obligations" and he 
questioned the truthfulness of its application.[41] The station was also 
accused of misrepresenting the number of station employees based in Secaucus, 
and failed to report a reduction in local news coverage.[42] On February 
17, 2011, the FCC opened an investigation against then-WWOR parent News 
Corporation to determine whether the company misrepresented information 
about WWOR-TV's news operations and programming during the station's license 
review.[43] News Corporation would have been stripped of its licenses to 
operate both WWOR-TV and sister station WNYW, as well as facing other penalties 
if found guilty of any wrongdoing[44] (News Corporation spun off both stations 
and its other U.S. television properties to 21st Century Fox in June 2013). 
Legal representation hired by WWOR stated that the station had fulfilled 
its commitments.[45] In December 2012, Lautenberg called for an investigation 
into the potential relaxing of FCC rules regarding ownership consolidation 
within media markets stating that News Corporation's co-ownership of WNYW 
and the New York Post "has not served New Jersey well."[46] Following Lautenberg's 
June 3, 2013 death and the subsequent announcement of the WWOR news department's 
closure one month later, fellow New Jersey senator Robert Menendez took 
up the cause, saying it was increasingly critical with WWOR dropping their 
newscast and going with the outside Chasing New Jersey for coverage of 
state issues for the FCC to make a ruling on WWOR's license and their fulfillment 
of their obligations.[47] Rep. Frank Pallone also called for the revocation 
of WWOR's license.[48] In November 2013 the New Jersey Legislature passed 
a resolution urging the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to revoke 
the station's license.[49] In March 2014, New Jersey's senior United States 
Senator Bob Menendez wrote to the FCC asking for swift action to determine 
if the station had been fulfilling its licensing requirements.[50] "New 
Jersey is one of the most densely populated states in the country, but 
because of its location between New York City and Philadelphia, does not 
have a designated market area (DMA)...WWOR is required to fill this gap 
by operating in the state of New Jersey to the benefit of all residents. 
Unfortunately, concerns have mounted that the operations of WWOR have not 
fulfilled these requirements." On August 8, 2014, the FCC renewed WWOR's 
license, dismissing all of the objecting petitions, though the permanent 
waiver allowing Fox Television Stations to run both WNYW and WWOR along 
with 21st Century Fox's ownership of the New York Post was denied; a temporary 
waiver was granted.[51] Those objecting to the license renewal have until 
October 8, 2014 to file their arguments, with statements in favor of the 
renewal due by October 23, and replies due by November 3.[52] The station's 
digital channel is multiplexed: Additionally, WNYW and WWOR both have their 
feeds simulcast in standard definition on a subchannel of each respective 
station, allowing over-the-air viewers a viewable signal of both stations 
if they can receive one station, but not the other, as shown;[54] WWOR-TV 
also has a Mobile DTV feed of sister station WNYW 5.1 (via its subchannel 
on 9.2), broadcasting at 1.83 Mbit/s, with plans to add a subchannel of 
its own, also at 1.83 Mbit/s[55][56] On November 3, 2011, Fox Television 
Stations signed an affiliation agreement with Bounce TV, a subchannel network 
aimed at African American audiences, to carry the service on the second 
or third digital subchannels of its MyNetworkTV-affiliated stations.[57] 
The agreement by Fox Television Stations to carry Bounce TV ended on February 
23, 2015, when a new agreement with Univision's stations group went into 
effect and Bounce TV shifted over to WXTV-DT3. WWOR-DT3 remained allocated 
but off the air until the end of May 30, 2015, when the game show channel 
Buzzr TV took over the channel space. On May 17, 2013, Fox began carrying 
MundoFox, via the primary channel of East Orange-based WPXO-LD, over WWOR-TV 
subchannel 9.4, in standard definition, but optimized for stretch mode 
on 16:9 digital sets. With Fox's interest in the network ending in July 
2015 and the network taking a new name as MundoMax, Weigel Broadcasting's 
Heroes & Icons network took over the space on October 3, 2015 under a group 
deal between Weigel and Fox Television Stations. WWOR-TV discontinued regular 
programming on its analog signal, over VHF channel 9, at 11:59 p.m. on 
June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog 
to digital television.[58][59] The last program to air on analog was Law 
& Order: Criminal Intent. The station's digital signal remained on its 
pre-transition UHF channel 38,[60][61] using PSIP to display WWOR-TV's 
virtual channel as 9 on digital television receivers. On January 7, 2014, 
WWOR applied for a digital fill-in translator on channel 34 from the Armstrong 
Tower and licensed to Alpine, New Jersey that will serve the northern viewing 
area.[62] As an independent station, channel 9's schedule was heavy on 
sports programming. Early in its history, WOR-TV established itself as 
the home of National League baseball in New York, carrying Brooklyn Dodgers 
(beginning in 1950) and New York Giants games (beginning in 1951) until 
both teams moved to California following the 1957 season. From 1958 to 
1961, the station aired a limited schedule of Philadelphia Phillies games, 
consisting of matchups against the Dodgers and Giants. In 1962, WOR-TV 
gained broadcast rights to the New York Mets, the National League's new 
expansion team. The partnership between the station and the team would 
last through the 1998 season, after which the Mets moved their broadcasts 
to WPIX.[citation needed] Channel 9 acquired rights to the NHL's New York 
Rangers and the NBA's New York Knicks in 1965, holding onto both teams 
until 1989 (when the two teams' television rights moved to the cable-exclusive 
MSG Network). The New York Islanders; New York/New Jersey Nets; New Jersey 
Devils; local college basketball; New York Cosmos soccer; WWWF/WWF; WCW 
and briefly in the mid-1970s, IWA wrestling were also broadcast on channel 
9. For a generation of New York sports fans, the station became synonymous 
with its relationships with the Mets, Knicks, Rangers, Islanders, Devils, 
Nets and the World Wrestling Federation.[citation needed] Except for the 
Mets (for whom WOR/WWOR did cover a large number of home games), WWOR's 
pro sports coverage mainly featured away games, although in the mid-1960s, 
the station taped a handful of Rangers' Saturday afternoon home games for 
broadcast that evening. One such game, on November 12, 1965 against the 
Chicago Blackhawks, is said to be the first NHL game to ever be broadcast 
in color.[63] In early 1968, the station also carried live coverage of 
the Rangers' and Knicks' last home games at the old Madison Square Garden 
and the first home games of both teams from the new MSG arena.[citation 
needed] WWOR-TV also broadcast an infamous interview between former World 
Heavyweight boxing champion Mike Tyson and the station's then-sports anchor 
Russ Salzberg in January 1999, whose intent was to discuss Tyson's then 
comeback fight against François Botha; Tyson shouted several expletives, 
made threats and told the audience to switch the station off. This prompted 
Salzberg to abruptly end the interview, giving Tyson a half-hearted wish 
of luck on his upcoming fight. Tyson responded by telling Salzberg to "fuck 
off".[64] In late September 2001, WWOR-TV aired several New York Yankees 
baseball games that were originally scheduled to air on WNYW. In 2005, 
channel 9 picked up Yankees games on a full-time basis, with the broadcasts 
being produced by the YES Network. Whenever YES broadcasts a Yankees game 
during the same time period as a Brooklyn Nets game, the Nets game airs 
instead on WWOR due to channel overflow, and the mutual agreement between 
the two networks. This is usually the case during the month of April, and 
most of the Nets playoff games. Channel 9 and YES became corporate siblings 
in 2012, when Fox bought a 49 percent stake in the latter channel (since 
increased to 80 percent). On August 10, 2012, WWOR-TV aired a pre-season 
New York Giants football game, due to an arrangement between the team and 
WWOR to carry the game as WNBC (channel 4) could not air it due to its 
commitments to broadcast the 2012 Summer Olympics.[65] The station remains 
as an overflow station for the Giants if WNBC is unable to broadcast a 
Giants pre-season football game due to NBC's Olympics coverage. WWOR has 
also simulcast ESPN-produced Monday Night Football games in which the Giants 
or Jets were involved, as well as such games during the early existence 
of the NFL Network; WWOR was scheduled to be the local outlet for the December 
30, 2007 Giants/Patriots game, but with the Patriots on the verge of an 
undefeated regular season, and NFL Network having minimal cable carriage 
at the time, the game ended up being simulcast nationally on CBS and NBC 
in addition to WWOR. In 2015 the Yankees games moved back to WPIX 11 after 
ending a ten-year deal, leaving this station without any major games being 
broadcast, thus ending 65 years of carrying any major sports programming 
except for playoff games which are rarely seen. In August 2016 WWOR began 
broadcasting preseason giants football games, though it is uncertain whether 
it will be airing preseason game each year. In addition this will be the 
second time in 4 years to carry preseason football. As most of New York's 
independent stations were during the 1960s and 1970s, WOR-TV was a very 
minor player in the area of local news. Before 1971, the station did not 
carry any live news programming, but had an early morning audio-only newscast 
read by the on-duty staff announcer over the station logo. In 1971, WOR-TV 
launched its first live newscast, the News at Noon, which was also the 
first midday newscast in the New York City market. In 1983, following the 
move to New Jersey, channel 9 launched a nightly 8:00 p.m. newscast called 
News 9: Primetime. After the MCA takeover in 1987, the 8:00 newscast was 
moved two hours later to 10:00 p.m., and expanded to an hour (placing it 
in direct competition with newscasts in that timeslot airing on WPIX and 
eventual sister station WNYW). The noon program, which was later merged 
into 9 Broadcast Plaza, ended in 1993 and was replaced with The Ricki Lake 
Show. Despite the presence of its sister station WNYW's long-running and 
successful news program at 10:00 p.m., WWOR-TV was able to compete in that 
same timeslot following Fox's acquisition of channel 9 simply because both 
stations use separate studios. As opposed to the model of most television 
station duopolies, WWOR-TV and sister station WNYW operated news departments 
that were technically separate from one another: WWOR operated its news 
department from the station's Secaucus studios, while WNYW runs theirs 
from the Fox Television Center in Manhattan, allowing the two stations 
to maintain their own on-air identities and offer individual local news 
programs simultaneously. However, the two stations shared a fairly significant 
amount in regards to news coverage, with some staffers having switched 
from one station to the other. Both stations maintained their own primary 
on-air personalities (such as news anchors and reporters) that only appeared 
on one station. WWOR's newscasts also focused a larger proportion of their 
stories on New Jersey issues, a condition the station had adhered to since 
its license was transferred from New York City to Secaucus.[citation needed] 
On July 13, 2009, the 10:00 p.m. newscast was moved to 11:00 p.m. and was 
shortened to a half-hour due to budget cuts. In addition, weekend newscasts 
and a Sunday night sports highlight program were dropped.[66] On June 27, 
2011, WWOR-TV returned the newscast to its previous 10 p.m. timeslot and 
retitled it The Ten O'Clock News; it remained a half-hour in length and 
continued to air on weeknights only.[67] On September 10, 2012, WWOR-TV 
began broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition.[citation needed] 
Sports director Russ Salzberg, anchor Brenda Blackmon, and reporter Brenda 
Flanagan were the station's longest-tenured on-air personalities. Flanagan 
worked for the station starting in 1983, while Salzberg and Blackmon joined 
WWOR in 1988 and 1992, respectively.[68] In areas of central New Jersey, 
where the New York and Philadelphia markets overlap with one another, both 
WWOR and WNYW shared resources with their Philadelphia sister station WTXF-TV. 
The stations shared reporters for stories occurring in New Jersey counties 
served by both markets.[citation needed] The 10 p.m. newscast was cancelled 
following its July 2, 2013, broadcast (ending 42 years of newscast production 
by channel 9 and 30 years of primetime newscasts); in its place, the station 
introduced Chasing New Jersey, a nightly New Jersey-focused newsmagazine 
with a "fast-paced" format (which some critics compared to TMZ), on July 
8. The program, which is produced by Fairfax Productions (a production 
company led by the vice president and general manager of Philadelphia sister 
station WTXF-TV) from a studio in Trenton and hosted by Bill Spadea, is 
also seen on WTXF as a lead-in to its morning newscast. With the end of 
WWOR's newscast, Brenda Blackmon was reassigned to produce and host news 
specials for the station (although she would leave for WPIX in 2016 [69]), 
while other members of the on-air staff were offered new roles (including 
at WNYW). Despite the closure of WWOR's news department, the station's 
