WXYT (1270 AM, branded CBS Sports Radio 1270) is a commercial radio station 
licensed to Detroit, Michigan broadcasting a sports talk format. The station 
serves the Detroit-Windsor market and the Southeastern Michigan and Southwestern 
Ontario areas. Its transmitter is in Monroe County at Ash Township and 
operations and studios are at CBS Radio's facilities in Southfield, Michigan. 
WXYT is a 50,000 watt, Class B station broadcasting on a regional frequency. 
It is not a clear-channel station because of its frequency and highly directional 
antenna. The station is owned by CBS Radio. This station used to be known 
as WXYZ, an ABC Radio-owned radio station from 1946 until 1984. WXYT is 
licensed by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for hybrid 
(analog and HD) broadcasting.[1][2] The station went on the air October 
10, 1925, as WGHP - named after its owner, George Harrison Phelps. The 
radio station was licensed in Detroit, then moved to Mt. Clemens in 1927, 
and moved again to Fraser in 1928. The station was rated at 500 watts. 
WGHP was a charter member of the CBS Radio Network, being one of the 16 
stations that aired the first CBS network program on September 18, 1927.[3] 
In 1930, the station was purchased by George W. Trendle's Kunsky-Trendle 
Broadcasting and switched the call letters to WXYZ which were acquired 
from a U.S. Army station. The station was rated at 1,000 watts when it 
moved back to Detroit in 1930. Trendle moved the station to the Maccabees 
Building on Woodward Avenue in downtown Detroit, where it maintained facilities 
until 1959. However, most programming in the 1930s, 1940s and early 1950s 
originated from the former Mendelson Mansion on East Jefferson Avenue. 
In addition to local programs, WXYZ produced The Lone Ranger, Challenge 
of the Yukon and The Green Hornet for broadcast throughout the US and Canada. 
The station's original call letters, WGHP, are now used by a Fox-affiliated 
television station in High Point, North Carolina. The station's slogan 
"The Last Word in Radio" would tie-in with its call letters. Another former 
slogan was "WXYZ, Where the Best Comes Last." On June 1, 1932, WXYZ's affiliation 
with CBS ended. The trade magazine Broadcasting reported that the reason 
was "to make way for more local programs.[4] In 1934, WXYZ was one of the 
founding stations of the Mutual Broadcasting System, along with WOR in 
New York, WGN in Chicago, and WLW in Cincinnati. On September 29, 1935, 
WXYZ dropped out of the Mutual group to become an affiliate of the NBC 
Blue network.[5][6] The following year, its parent company, Kunsky-Trendle, 
changed its name to King-Trendle. WXYZ was contractually obligated to provide 
The Lone Ranger to Mutual for another four years, so although the program 
originated from WXYZ, it was heard in the Detroit area on Mutual's new 
affiliate, CKLW. In 1946, the station was purchased by the American Broadcasting 
Company, which was recently formed from the NBC Blue Network by Edward 
Noble. On May 2, 1946, Noble, ABC board chairman, announced the purchase 
of King-Trendle Broadcasting Corp. (which consisted of WXYZ, WOOD/Grand 
Rapids and Michigan Radio Network) for $3,650,000. The sale was approved 
by FCC on July 18. Some time prior to the end of 1939, the radio station's 
power was increased to 5,000 watts daytime, and WXYZ increased night power 
to 5,000 watts with a mildly directional night pattern by the end of March 
1941. In 1948, WXYZ personalities contributed to launching programing on 
ABC's new Detroit television station WXYZ-TV, Channel 7, and WXYZ-FM (now 
WRIF) also signed on at 101.1 MHz. Dick Osgood of WXYZ radio was the first 
face on Channel 7 from its studios in the Maccabees Building. WXYZ had 
many of Detroit's most prominent radio personalities of the 1940s and 1950s 
including Dick Osgood, Fred Wolf, Ed McKenzie, Mickey Shorr, "The Lady 
of Charm" Edyth Fern Melrose, Jack Surrell (one of the earliest African-American 
air personalities on an otherwise white-oriented station), and future CBS 
News correspondents Mike Wallace and Douglas Edwards. ABC moved WXYZ AM-FM-TV 
in 1959 from the Maccabees Building to a new home known as "Broadcast House." 
WXYZ radio occupied studios on the second floor of the new facility built 
on the site of a former farm, which housed WXYZ's AM transmitter in Southfield, 
Michigan, until 1984. Over the next decade, as television grew in popularity, 
WXYZ was successful in replacing many of the declining ABC radio network 
variety features with local record shows hosted by personalities like longtime 
morning show host Fred Wolf, Paul Winter, and Mickey Shorr, one of the 
most influential of Detroit's early rock-and-roll disc jockeys. Under the 
guidance of Hal Neal, WXYZ was the first ABC-owned-and-operated station 
to adopt the Top 40 music format in 1958; although WXYZ had already been 
making moves toward Top 40 in terms of playing more music and less network 
programming, the music played on the station during the various disc jockey 
shows encompassed a wide variety of genres, from mainstream pop to rock 
and roll to show tunes to opera. The transition to Top 40 was completed 
in 1958 with the station instituting an official playlist and taking away 
disc jockeys' privileges to play what they wanted. Although many of the 
DJs were disenchanted with the changes (particularly Fred Wolf, who was 
notable for his distaste for rock and roll), WXYZ's move proved a success 
in terms of ratings. The station's success in Top 40 inspired ABC to convert 
two of its flagship stations, WABC in New York and WLS in Chicago, to Top 
40 in 1960. Neal himself moved to New York to manage network flagship WABC, 
which during the 1960s became the nation's most listened-to radio station. 
WXYZ was still, however, as an ABC network station, obliged to carry ABC's 
weekday-morning traditional radio variety show, "The Breakfast Club." During 
the late 1950s and early 1960s, "Channel 1270", or "Wixie" (also spelled 
"Wyxie") as it was affectionately known, battled with Storer Broadcasting's 
WJBK (1500 AM) and RKO General's CKLW (800 AM, often known as 'the Big 
8') for the Top 40 audience in Detroit. The "Wixie" persona and WXYZ calls 
is reputed to have been the inspiration for "WIXY 1260," itself a Top 40 
powerhouse in Cleveland, Ohio during the late 1960s. Some noteworthy personalities 
during WXYZ's Top 40 era included: longtime morning drive host Fred Wolf; 
Lee Alan "On The Horn"; Joel Sebastian, (who later moved on to WLS);[7] 
Paul Winter; Fred Weiss; Dave Prince; Steve Lundy, Don Zee; and, for a 
short time in 1966, Joey Reynolds and Jim Hampton. In 1963, WXYZ and WJBK 
were the two dominant Top 40 music stations in Detroit. However, both stations 
were seriously undermined by the launch of WKNR "Keener 13" (formerly WKMH) 
at 1310 on the dial. "Keener" had a tighter, faster presentation and a 
shorter playlist than the competition, and quickly took over as Detroit's 
number one rated station. WJBK was the first of WKNR's competitors to fall, 
switching to an MOR format in 1964. WXYZ battled tooth and nail with WKNR 
for over three years, but by the summer of 1966, WXYZ had also fallen behind 
Windsor, Ontario's CKLW in the ratings. As an ABC-owned-and-operated station, 
WXYZ continued to be crippled by its ABC network commitments such as "The 
Breakfast Club" and an hour-long block of news and commentary during the 
evening drive period, and although the disc jockeys continued to lobby 
to drop these programs to compete more effectively with WKNR, their pleas 
fell on deaf ears. In early 1967, WXYZ was third-ranked out of the three 
Top 40 stations. As a result, the station changed direction, softening 
its music mix to an adult contemporary/MOR approach known as "The Sound 
of the Good Life." However, the station continued to flounder until Dick 
Purtan, formerly of WKNR, took over the WXYZ morning show after a short 
but eventful stint at WBAL in Baltimore. With Dick Purtan in the morning, 
WXYZ did respectably in the ratings through the 1970s with an adult Top 
40/oldies hybrid. In the mid-1970s, WXYZ adopted the "Musicradio" slogan 
used by its sister stations WABC and WLS and continued to do well with 
an adult contemporary format and Purtan's morning show as the anchor. By 
then, the former WXYZ-FM was known as WRIF and also doing well with its 
"Rock 'N' Stereo 101" album oriented rock approach. The station dropped 
music in favor of an all-talk format in 1978, which was the same year Dick 
Purtan left for CKLW. Ron Cameron, Joel Zelle, Tom Hopkins, Tom Dean, Dr. 
Sonya Freidman, David Newman and others hosted talk shows during this timeframe, 
under Program Directors Bob Oakes and Michael Packer. News reporters/anchors 
included Tom Bell, Tom Adams, Lou Hebert, Kathy Jackson, Robert Lambert, 
Scott Lewis and Mike O'Neill. In 1977, WXYZ reporters, Lou Hebert and Tom 
Adams won a radio Peabody Award for Winter's Fear: The Children, The Killer, 
The Search, a presentation on the events surrounding the Oakland County 
Child Killer case. In 1984, the radio station was seeing its profits steadily 
declining along with its ratings. Station vice president and general manager 
Chuck Fritz, thinking he could operate it more profitably, offered to buy 
the station. ABC agreed and sold it to Fritz Broadcasting for $3 million 
(USD). The call letters were changed to the similar-sounding WXYT, with 
the "T" standing for "talk." The WXYZ calls were retained by the TV station, 
which was sold two years later to Scripps-Howard to comply with divestiture 
requirements following Capital Cities Communications' purchase of ABC. 
WRIF was also sold while Cap Cities retained WJR, WHYT, the "Oakland Press" 
and numerous cable interests in Southeastern Lower Michigan. Jock Fritz 
later bought the struggling 92.3 FM and converted it to the highly successful 
WMXD "Mix 92.3" (now a iHeartMedia station), and founded the Radio Station 
Representative Association in Detroit. WXYT continued with its talk format 
as "Talkradio 1270" airing local programs hosted by Denny McLain, Kevin 
Joyce, Bill Bonds, Mark Scott, David Newman, John McCullogh and weathercaster 
Rob Kress; and syndicated talk show hosts such as Don Imus, Larry King, 
Michael Jackson, and Rush Limbaugh. Glenn Haege, known as "America's Master 
Handyman," hosted "Ask The Handyman", a weekend home improvement show that 
started on WXYZ in the mid-1980s, and lasted on WXYT until 2002. In 1998, 
after an unsuccessful campaign for Michigan governor, Geoffrey Fieger hosted 
an evening talk show that lasted less than a year. In 1994, the station 
was sold again, this time to Infinity Broadcasting, which itself was acquired 
by CBS Radio in 1997, pairing WXYT with WWJ and WKRK-FM (Infinity Broadcasting 
remained as the name of the radio division). Infinity Broadcasting would 
revert its name to CBS Radio by December 2005. WXYT changed to an all-sports 
format in 2000 when the station, which had aired Detroit Lions football 
starting in 1998, acquired the broadcast rights to Detroit Tigers baseball 
and Detroit Red Wings hockey from rival WJR. The station re-branded itself 
as "Team 1270". By 2002, WXYT re-branded itself again as "AM 1270 The Sports 
Station". Power was increased from 5,000 watts to 50,000 watts, though 
with a highly directional signal as opposed to non-directional clear-channel 
WJR. In 2005, the station re-branded again, this time to "1270-XYT: The 
Sports Station." WXYT's former afternoon show, The Locker Room, was hosted 
by former Detroit Tiger Kirk Gibson, Gary Danielson and former WJBK-TV 
and WABC-TV sports anchor Eli Zaret. Until the 2006 NCAA football season 
WXYT was the broadcast home for the Michigan State University Spartans. 
Opie and Anthony, upon the return of their show, The Opie and Anthony Show, 
were also on WXYT from June to September 2006, after WXYT's local morning 
sports talk programming experiment fell through. Their show was moved to 
sister station WKRK, while WXYT picked up Mike and Mike in the Morning. 
In August 2007, WXYT became an ESPN Radio affiliate, same as its Detroit 
sports radio competitor, WDFN. The two stations simulcast ESPN content 
until the merger of WXYT with WKRK in October 2007, at which point they 
picked up WKRK's affiliation with Sporting News Radio, dropping ESPN. WXYT 
airs one-minute sports news updates, called "Sports Headlines", at the 
top of every hour, as well as a quick update at the bottom of the hour 
on weekends and from 3-9 p.m. Monday thru Friday. This is unlike many other 
sports stations across the country which air their sports news updates 
three times an hour. In January 2007, WXYT announced that it had renewed 
its flagship-broadcast contracts with the Tigers and Red Wings. Beginning 
with the 2007 season, the Tigers would have their games simulcast on WKRK. 
The Red Wings' simulcast began in spring 2007. These contracts were extended 
in July 2010. WXYT began a simulcast with FM sister station WKRK, which 
dropped its "hot talk" format in the process, on October 1, 2007. On WXYT's 
end, Mike and Mike in the Morning was replaced by Deminski & Doyle, and 
the ESPN Radio affiliation was dropped in favor of Sporting News Radio. 
The AM/FM simulcast took the name "Detroit's Sports Powerhouse: 97.1 FM 
& 1270 AM." That November 6, the simulcast was renamed "97.1 The Ticket" 
(WKRK was also renamed WXYT-FM in the process). Any mention of the 1270 
facility came during top of the hour legal station identification. Another 
change was the names of the mid-day show "The Big Show" and the afternoon 
show "The Sports Inferno" with the names changing to the last names of 
their hosts. Along with WXYT-FM, WXYT served as the flagship station (along 
with sister station WXYT-FM) for the Detroit Lions,[8] Detroit Red Wings,[9] 
and Detroit Tigers;[10] and along with WWJ, the Detroit Pistons [11] It 
also carried syndicated programming from the Los Angeles-based Yahoo! Sports 
Radio, as well as live (non-Detroit) NFL games from across the country 
via NFL on Westwood One. In February 2009, the station announced it would 
broadcast games for the Detroit Pistons, beginning with the 2009-2010 NBA 
season. All of these play-by-play rights remain with WXYT-FM to this day. 
When 1270 wasn't simulcasting 97.1 FM (mostly during live sporing events 
with restricted contracts), 1270 used a different set of station IDs. WXYT 
AM and FM concluded their simulcast on September 12, 2011, with the 1270 
facility reverting to a talk radio format and its former "Talk Radio 1270 
WXYT" branding. Charlie Langton hosted a live, local morning show, Doc 
Thompson (formerly of WMJI in Cleveland, WLW in Cincinnati and WRVA in 
Richmond) in afternoon drive, and syndicated hosts Glenn Beck, Laura Ingraham, 
Todd Schnitt, and Rusty Humphries and Coast to Coast's George Noory on 
for the balance of the day.[12] [13] The station also had frequent preemptions 
of talk shows to air college and professional games, as well as overflow 
from WXYT-FM. Sometime in 2012, all CBS-owned radio stations in Detroit 
moved their operations in Detroit, Michigan to the former Panasonic Building.[14] 
On January 2, 2013, the station changed its format back to sports talk 
