The Wyoming Valley is a historic industrialized region of northeastern 
Pennsylvania once famous for fueling the industrial revolution in the United 
States with its many anthracite coal mines. As a metropolitan area, it 
is known as the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre area, the 95th-largest metropolitan 
area in the United States. It is called the "Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Metropolitan 
Area" after its principal cities, Scranton and Wilkes-Barre, and makes 
up its own unique physiographic province, the Anthracite Valley in the 
geology of Pennsylvania. Greater Pittston makes up the center of the valley. 
The airport(s) for this area are Wilkes-Barre/Scranton International Airport 
(Avoca) and the Wilkes-Barre Wyoming Valley Airport (Forty Fort). The Wyoming 
Valley also has professional sports teams; they include the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre 
Railriders (Baseball AAA), the Wilkes-Barre/Scranton Penguins (Hockey AHL), 
and the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Steamers(Basketball Premier Basketball League). 
Some other attractions are the Mohegan Sun Arena at Casey Plaza in Wilkes-Barre, 
the Pocono Raceway in Long Pond, PNC Field in Moosic, Mohegan Sun Casino 
in Plains, the Toyota Pavilion in Scranton, the Wyoming Valley Mall in 
Wilkes-Barre, the Shoppes at Montage in Moosic, the Steamtown Mall in Scranton, 
the Viewmont Mall in Scranton/Dickson City, Pennsylvania, and the Montage 
Mountain Waterpark/Ski Resort in Scranton. The valley is a crescent-shaped 
depression, a part of the ridge-and-valley or folded Appalachians. The 
Susquehanna River occupies the southern part of the valley, which is notable 
for its deposits of anthracite. These have been extensively mined. Deep 
mining of anthracite has declined throughout the greater Coal Region, however, 
due to the greater economics of strip mining. Parts of the local mines 
had already shut down because some coal beds were on fire and had to be 
sealed; but the exodus of mining companies came quickly following the legal 
and political repercussions of the 1959 Knox Mine Disaster—when the roof 
of the Knox Coal Company's mine under the river collapsed. The Pocono Mountains, 
a ridgeline away, are often visible from higher elevations to the east 
and to the southeast of the Wyoming Valley[notes 1] The Scranton–Wilkes-Barre–Hazleton, 
PA Metropolitan Statistical Area covers Lackawanna, Luzerne and Wyoming 
counties.[3] It had a combined population of 563,936 in 2011[citation needed] 
The counties adjacent to the "Wyoming Valley" includes Monroe County (Southeast), 
Susquehanna County (Northeast), Wayne County (East), Columbia County (West), 
Bradford County (Northwest), Carbon County (South), Sullivan County (West) 
and Schuylkill County (Southeast). The area also has the highest percentage 
of non-Hispanic whites of any U.S. metropolitan area with a population 
over 500,000, with 96.2% of the population stating their race as white 
alone and not claiming Hispanic ethnicity.[4] When metropolitan areas were 
first defined in 1950, Scranton and Wilkes-Barre were in separate metropolitan 
areas. Lackawanna County was defined as the Scranton Standard Metropolitan 
Area, while Luzerne County was defined as the Wilkes-Barre–Hazleton Standard 
Metropolitan Area. The two metropolitan areas were merged after the 1970 
census as the Northeast Pennsylvania Standard Metropolitan Statistical 
Area, with Monroe County added as a component. It was renamed the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre 
Metropolitan Statistical Area after the 1980 census, and Columbia and Wyoming 
counties were added. Hazleton was added as a primary city in the 1990 census, 
while Monroe County lost its metropolitan status. After the 2000 census, 
Columbia County lost metropolitan status, while Hazleton was removed as 
a primary city. The name Wyoming derives from the Lenape Munsee name xwé:wamənk, 
meaning "at the smaller river hills."[5] According to the Jesuit Relation 
of 1635, the Wyoming Valley was inhabited by the Scahentoarrhonon people, 
an Iroquoian-speaking group; it was then known as the Scahentowanen Valley. 
By 1744 it was inhabited by Lenape, Mahican, Shawnee and others who had 
been pushed out of eastern areas by the Iroquois Confederacy. From the 
1740s to the 1760s, the valley was the site of Moravian mission work among 
the Native Americans living there. They envisioned a settlement for Christian 
Indians. But the violence of the French and Indian War, the North American 
front of the Seven Years' War, drove these settlers away with David Zeisberger, 
the Moravian "Apostle to the Indians." Pennsylvania's and Connecticut's 
conflicting claims to the territory — King Charles II of England had granted 
the land to the colony of Connecticut in 1662, and also to William Penn 
in 1681 — led to military skirmishes known as the Pennamite Wars. After 
Yankee settlers from Connecticut founded the town of Wilkes-Barre in 1769, 
armed bands of Pennsylvanians (Pennamites) tried without success to expel 
them in 1769-70, and again in 1775. During the American Revolutionary War, 
the Battle of Wyoming took place here on July 3, 1778, in which more than 
300 Revolutionaries died at the hands of Loyalists and their Iroquois allies. 
The incident was depicted by the Scottish poet Thomas Campbell in his 1809 
poem Gertrude of Wyoming. At the time, rebel colonists widely believed 
that Joseph Brant, a Mohawk chief, had led the Iroquois forces; in the 
poem, Brant is described as the "Monster Brant" because of the atrocities 
committed. Later colonists determined that Brant had not been present at 
this conflict. The popularity of the poem may have led to the state of 
Wyoming later being named after the valley.   The following printed resources 
are in the collection of the Connecticut State Library (CSL): Coordinates: 
