Xalapa (often spelled Jalapa, Spanish pronunciation: [xaˈlapa] ( listen); 
English /həˈlɑːpə/;[2] officially Xalapa-Enríquez [xaˈlapa enˈrikes]) is 
the capital city of the Mexican state of Veracruz and the name of the surrounding 
municipality. In the 2005 census the city reported a population of 387,879 
and the municipality of which it serves as municipal seat reported a population 
of 413,136.[3] The municipality has an area of 118.45 km². Xalapa lies 
near the geographic center of the state and is the second-largest city 
in the state after the city of Veracruz to the southeast. The name Xalapa 
comes from the Nahuatl roots xālli [ˈʃaːlːi] "sand" and āpan [ˈaːpan] "water 
place", which approximately means "spring in the sand." It is classically 
pronounced [ʃaˈlaːpan] in Nahuatl, though the final /n/ is often omitted; 
the /ʃ/ sound (like English sh) was written x in the 16th century. This 
does not occur in modern Spanish, and its counterpart is the [x] or [h] 
sound, normally written j. The spelling Xalapa (like the word México) reflects 
the archaic pronunciation. Xalapa is pronounced [xaˈlapa] or [haˈlapa], 
the latter pronunciation used mostly in dialects of southern Mexico, the 
Caribbean, much of Central America, some places in South America, and the 
Canary Islands and western Andalusia in Spain where [x] has become a voiceless 
glottal fricative ([h]).[4] The full name of the city is Xalapa-Enríquez, 
named in honor of 19th-century Governor Juan de la Luz Enríquez. The city's 
nickname, La ciudad de las flores ("The City of Flowers"), was bestowed 
by Alexander von Humboldt, who visited the town on 10 February 1804. The 
reference is also related to the city's earlier colonial history. In folklore, 
the Spaniards believed that Xalapa was the birthplace and home of the Florecita, 
which literally means "little flower".[5] Residents of Xalapa are called 
Xalapeños or Jalapeños, which is the name given to the popular long peppers 
cultivated in this area. The Totonacs were the first people to establish 
themselves around the Macuiltepetl, fifth mountain in Nahuatl language 
(Macuilli: five, fifth; Tepetl: hill, mountain). This mountain, an extinct 
volcano, received its name after the Aztecs used it as the fifth reference 
mountain to get to the gulf of Mexico's shores. Today it is preserved within 
a park. During the 14th century, four cultures of indigenous peoples settled 
in the territory today known as Xalapa. Each of them built a small village: 
Xalitic (in the sand) was founded by the Totonacas; Techacapan (river of 
waste) was founded by the Chichimecas; in the northeast Tecuanapan (river 
of the beasts) was founded by the Toltecas, and Tlalnecapan was founded 
by the Teochichimecas. Eventually around 1313, the four villages grew and 
joined, forming one big village which was given the name Xallapan. Moctezuma 
Ilhuicamina, the fifth Aztec emperor, invaded the territory during the 
second half of the 15th century. All the land was ruled as part of the 
Aztec Empire before the arrival and conquest of the Spanish conquistadores. 
In 1519 Hernán Cortés passed through Xalapa en route to Tenochtitlan.[6]:135 
In 1555 Spanish Franciscans completed construction of a convent, the second-most 
important event in that time in Nueva España. When the Spanish arrived, 
Xalapa was barely populated. The population rose after the conquest and 
colonial settlement. When the Spanish improved the Mexico-Orizaba-Veracruz 
route, Xalapa declined in importance as a transport hub, with its population 
stagnating during the 17th century.[7] From 1720 Xalapa became increasingly 
important, due to trade with numerous retailers of the New Spain arriving 
to sell products and to buy products cultivated and made in the peninsula.[7] 
At this time numerous resident Spanish families in the near towns settled 
in Xalapa, so that by 1760 the population had increased to over 1,000 inhabitants, 
including mestizo and Spanish. The growth of Xalapa in population, culture, 
commerce and importance, increased dramatically in the 18th century. Responding 
to residents' requests, Carlos IV of Spain elevated the status of Xalapa 
to a town on 18 December 1791.[7] In 1772, the construction of Xalapa Cathedral 
began. On 18 May 1784, José María Alfaro lifted the first air balloon in 
the Americas, in Xalapa. Due to the abundance of flowers growing in the 
region, Alexander von Humboldt, who visited the town on 10 February 1804, 
christened the town as the "City of the Flowers".[7] Since the beginning 
of the 19th century, Xalapa was the scene of some important historical 
events, and it supported the movement for independence from Spain. Ideas 
greatly flowed in the town, and Xalapa was represented by many who put 
forward these ideas to those in Mexico City in government meetings.[7] 
On 20 May 1821, shortly before completing Mexican Independence on 27 September 
of the same year, Xalapa was attacked by the forces of Don Antonio López 
de Santa Anna. Together with Don Joaquin Log, he forced Spanish captain 
Juan Horbregoso to surrender the town.[7] Independence was gained months 
later; the first emperor Agustín de Iturbide was not warmly received in 
Xalapa due to past differences.[7] On 9 May 1824, by decree of the President 
of the Republic Don Guadalupe Victoria, the First Legislature of the State 
of Veracruz was established in Xalapa. That same year, Xalapa was declared 
the state capital. In the 1820s Xalapa and the surrounding area was subject 
to a revolt when Vicente Guerrero replaced General Anastasio Bustamante. 
Veracruz was attacked by Isidro Barradas, who was attempting to reconquer 
parts of Mexico, and over 3,000 were deployed to defend the cities of Veracruz, 
Córdoba and Orizaba for military purposes.[7] Anastacio Bustamante, betraying 
the confidence given to him, revolted against the legitimate government 
with a new plan of Xalapa, signed on 4 December 1829. The revolt was subdued. 
On 29 November 1830 by decree, Xalapa was elevated to the class of city. 
On 1843, Don Antonio María de Rivera founded the Normal School of Xalapa 
to train teachers. Today it operates as a preparatory school for students 
going to college. During the United States invasion of the Mexican–American 
War, in 1847 General Don Antonio López de Santa Anna attempted to defeat 
the opposing forces at a site near Xalapa in the Battle of Cerro Gordo. 
He led an army of more than 12,000 soldiers. Mexican troops suffered many 
casualties, around 1,000 were killed and 3,000 wounded on 18 April 1847. 
The US invaders occupied the city the following day.[7] Among them was 
Lt. Ulysses S. Grant, later commanding General of the Union armies in the 
American Civil War. Grant's letters call Jalapa “decidedly the most beautiful 
place I ever saw in my life;” its climate “the best in the world.”[8] Xalapeños 
such as Ambrosio Alcalde and Antonio García fought bravely to defend the 
city of Veracruz, but were taken prisoner by the enemy. They were released 
and paroled, but after rejoining the fighting against the US, they were 
recaptured near Teocelo. They were taken to Xalapa and sentenced to death, 
executed on 24 November 1847.[7] Today these two men are remembered as 
martyrs. An obelisk monument commemorates their sacrifice, standing between 
San Jose Church and Alcalde Market, which was named after Ambrosio Alcalde.[7] 
The US forces after marching on to capture Mexico City departed after the 
Treaty of Guadaloupe Hidalgo. In November 1862 Xalapa was attacked during 
the French invasion; the foreigners temporarily took control of the state 
capital. On 27 November 1867 the corpse of the emperor Maximilian I of 
Mexico, who had been executed in Querétaro, arrived at Xalapa. It was held 
in the neighborhood of San Jose and attended to by the priest José María 
y Daza, before being transferred to Veracruz the following day. The emperor's 
remains were shipped back to Austria to be buried.[7] In 1885 General Juan 
de la Luz Enríquez increased the power of Xalapa by moving some legislative 
authority from Orizaba to Xalapa, in accordance with the decree issued 
in June 1884 by the provisional Governor Jose Manuel Jauregui. General 
Enríquez together with the Swiss teacher Enrique C. Rébsamen, in 1886 founded 
the Normal School in Xalapa, the first school of this type in the country.[7] 
Enríquez died in 1892, but the construction of Normal School and founding 
of other schools led to Xalapa becoming known for its centers of learning 
as the “Athens of Veracruz”.[7] During the regime of Enríquez, the old 
convent of San Francisco was demolished, and the area developed as the 
Parque Juárez. In June 1890 railroad construction brought the first locomotive 
for the Xalapa-Coatepec-Teocelo railroad to the city. The interoceanic 
railroad was completed in Veracruz in 1901.[7] The public lighting system 
was introduced in 1904.[9] In 1906 a clock was installed in the centre 
of the city on a building on Enríquez Street, which now houses the National 
Lottery agency. On 18 May 1911, Francisco I. Madero visited Xalapa. On 
21 June of the same year a minor conflict occurred between federal forces 
and revolutionaries.[7] On 3 January 1920, a strong earthquake rattled 
the city, destroying several buildings. Years later in December 1923, Xalapa 
fell into the power of the huertístas, commanded by Guadalupe Sánchez.[7] 
In 1940 the water building and agricultural house were constructed, which 
today is occupied by the Agrarian League of Communities and Union Farmers 
of the State. On 11 September 1944 the Universidad de Veracruzana was established, 
and Dr. Manuel Suárez became the first director. On 4 September 1978 by 
means of decree number 325, the Local Legislature approved that the official 
name of the city Xalapa Enríquez should be written with a “X” rather than 
a "J", to emphasize its derivation from Nahuatl.[7] Xalapa is a thriving 
center for commerce and many multinational companies have large retail 
stores and franchise restaurants in the city. These include Wal-Mart, Superama, 
Sam's Club, The Home Depot, Liverpool, Sears, Costco, Office Depot, Office 
Max, Oxxo, Sanborns, Comercial Mexicana, C&A, Fabricas de Francia, Coppel, 
Garcia, Milano, Burger King, McDonald's, Domino's Pizza, Pizza Hut, Subway, 
Starbucks, Kentucky Fried Chicken, Little Caesars, Block Buster, Hugo Boss, 
Pull and Bear, and Carl's Jr., Prada, Tous, etc. Xalapa also has a number 
of cinemas, some of them of substantial size, such as the Cinepolis Museum 
(10 screens), Cinepolis the Americas (16 screens), and other cinemas, such 
as XTreme Cinemas in Crystal and Cinetix in Plaza Animas, which is a local 
movie theater. There are also several retail malls in Xalapa: Plaza Crystal, 
Plaza Museo, Plaza Animas (L.A. Fashion), Plaza Américas, and Plaza los 
Arcos. Many people in Xalapa are employed by the government, since it is 
the state capital. Xalapa is also the head one of the five regional sections 
of the Tribunal Electoral (a level below the Supreme Court). This area 
encompasses 7 states: Campeche, Chiapas, Oaxaca, Quintana Roo, Tabasco, 
Veracruz and Yucatán. The other regional seats are Mexico City, Toluca, 
Monterrey and Guadalajara. Xalapa is known as the "Athens of Veracruz" 
because of the strong cultural influence of its major university, Universidad 
Veracruzana (the main public university in the State of Veracruz). General 
Enriquez is known for policies encouraging the educational system in Xalapa. 
Culturally, Xalapa has a wide variety of events associated with its theatres, 
museums, and street art. Many musicians and dancers frequently perform 
in the center in the nights, especially on special occasions and events 
of celebration or commemoration; they often dance the fandango. Art has 
a keen following in Xalapa. The gallery, Pinacoteca Diego Rivera, located 
near the City Hall and Parque Juárez in downtown, has the most numerous 
collection of Diego Rivera's paintings in all of Mexico.[5] Feast day of 
San José, Feast of Santiago Apostle, Feast of the Immaculate Heart of Jesus, 
Conception of Maria, and Expo-Fair International are all celebrated in 
the city. An important religious holiday is on 8 December, the Feast of 
the Immaculate Conception, celebrating Mary the Mother of God patroness 
of the city. On 24 October San Rafael Guizar and Valencia are celebrated, 
with thousands of people from all over Mexico visiting their tomb that 
is in a chapel within the cathedral. The cathedral remains open all night 
and day during this event. Xalapa is the place of origin of the famous 
Jalapeño peppers.[10] Dishes made with maize: gorditas, tostadas, pasties, 
enfrijoladas, and chicken are common. The desserts that are consumed in 
the region are typically sweet such as cake and cocodas and craft candies 
like candied fruit, dulce de leche and jamoncillo. Xalapa is home to numerous 
classical music orchestras and bands. The Orquesta Sinfónica de Xalapa 
is the most prominent, formed on 21 August 1929.[11] Other orchestras include 
the Orquesta municipal de Xalapa, Banda Sinfónica del Estado, Orquesta 
de Música Popular de la UV, Orquesta de salsa de la UV, Orquesta de Guitarras 
de Xalapa, Tlen Huicani and Orquesta Sinfónica Juvenil del Estado, which 
is the youth symphony orchestra for Veracruz state. Son Jarocho also thrives, 
including noted group Son de Madera. In Xalapa, the basic education is 
distributed by 195 establishments of pre-school, 196 primary schools and 
97 secondary schools. In addition it has 86 institutions which offer baccalaureate, 
as well as a technical and professional training center (CONALEP). In addition 
it has several institutions of further education. Of the most important 
is the Universidad Veracruzana which is also the most important in the 
state of Veracruz and attracts students not only from across Mexico but 
worldwide.[17] Established in 1944, the current director of the university 
is Dr. Sara Ladrón de Guevara, a graduated of the University of Paris I: 
Panthéon-Sorbonne.[citation needed] Furthermore, it is associated with 
the North American Mobility Project, a transnational academic program that 
links it to Georgia Southern University in the United States and Wilfrid 
Laurier University in Canada.[18] High Schools ESTI 128 ESTI 97 Xalapa 
is home to the Halcones UV Xalapa, a very successful professional basketball 
team. They play in the LNBP Xalapa also has many sporting facilities. As 
of 2005, the city has 25 soccer fields, 95 volleyball fields, 95 basketball 
courts, 36 baseball fields, and 29 multiple-use fields.[19] Also, the city 
has 12 gymnasiums, 7 parks, and the notable Heriberto Jara Corona Stadium, 
inaugurated 1921–1925.[19] Sportspeople of note hailing from Xalapa include 
Armando Fernández (an Olympic wrestler), Eulalio Ríos Alemán (an Olympic 
swimmer and at some time butterfly-stroke record holder in the USA, indicted 
into the Ft. Lauderdale's International Swimming Hall of Fame), and the 
track and field athlete Luis Hernández Every four years the Central American 
Games take place in cities all over CentralAmerica and the Caribbean. In 
2012 Veracruz was chosen to host these games in 2014. Several events took 
place in Xalapa. The Track Cycling was held in the Velodrome, the Modern 
Pentathlon Swimming took place in the University Swimming Pool, the Athletics 
trials in the Hilberto Jara Corona Stadium, and Badminton and Table Tennis 
in the Omega Complex. All of this brought recognition in the sports world 
to Xalapa. The Cuban athlete Sandra Mustelier, a member of the table tennis 
team, decided to flee the hotel where her team was staying two days before 
the opening of the Central American Games in Veracruz. The 28-year-old 
athlete did not collect her accreditation in Veracruz, a situation for 
which her teammates located her immediately by phone. When contacted, Mustelier 
herself informed her team of her defection. No investigation was undertaken 
by the Mexican authorities regarding this situation. Mustelier was considered 
to be a strong contender to win medals in table tennis. Laguna Verde Nuclear 
Power Plant (LVNPP) in nearby Alto Lucero, Veracruz, produces about 4.5% 
of Mexico's electrical energy. The city is connected by the 140-D Highway 
with the cities of Veracruz, Puebla and Mexico City. Also the 140 Road 
provides a link between those cities. The city has a central bus station 
(CAXA) which is a nodal point for many bus companies operating in the area, 
including AU, ADO, ADO-GL, OCC, Auto-Tour and Buses Sierra-Texcoco. Several 
bus companies are based in Xalapa including Servicio Urbano de Xalapa (SUX);[20] 
Auto-Transportes Banderilla (ATB);[21] the yellow and green sets of Interbus,[22] 
Auto-Transportes Miradores Del Mar;[23] and Transportes Rápidos de Veracruz 
(TRV)[24] amongst many others. There is also a bus service which exclusively 
takes passengers back and forth from Xalapa to Coatepec. These buses operate 
all over the city, with a cost per person ranging from 6.00 to 8.00 Mexican 
pesos; discount is offered to the elderly and to students who normally 
pay 5.00 Mexican pesos within the urban area. There are over 100 bus routes 
in the city. The taxis that operate in Xalapa are easily recognisable by 
their white and red paintwork. The most abundant taxis are of the Nissan 
Tsuru model. Typically, taxi drivers do not charge based on taximeter. 
The city of Xalapa is served by a small airport, El Lencero Airport,[25] 
located 15 minutes by road from the city. The only commercial airline that 
serves the city is Aeromar with non-stop flights to and from Mexico City. 
The demand for medical services by the population of the municipality, 
is taken care of by publicly and privately owned institutions. The medical 
units in Xalapa provide external advisory services, general and specialized 
hospitalization that are equipped with laboratories for clinical medical 
analyses including X-rays, obstetrical, gynaecological and paediatric equipment.[26] 
The public institutions of the health sector that provide services are: 
In the private sector the municipality counts on important medical establishments 
such as: Notable newspapers produced or circulated in Xalapa include www.Xalapa.MX 
Diario de Xalapa, Diario AZ, Diario el Portal de Xalapa, Diario la Opinión, 
Periodico Marcha, Periodico Al Calor Politico, Periodico Agronomica, Milenio 
and the Lider. As well, important agency of news on line, like RadioVer 
www.radiover.com and magazine Revista Era www.revistaera.com t The city 
is served by numerous radio stations including: FM: AM: Television channels 
include: Cable services include: Xalapa is situated in eastern-central 
Mexico, approximately 55 miles (89 km) northwest of Veracruz city.[27] 
and roughly 350 kilometres from Mexico City. The municipality of Xalapa 
has an area of 118.45 square kilometres which comprises 0.16% of Veracruz 
state. It borders to the north with Banderilla, Jilotepec and Naolinco, 
to the east with Actopan and Emiliano Zapata, to the south with Coatepec 
and the west with Tlalnelhuayocan. The city of Xalapa is located beneath 
the volcanic peaks of the Sierra Madre Oriental, at an elevation that oscillates 
from 1400 metres to 1700 metres above sea level, and is surrounded in lush 
tropical vegetation.[28] This mountainous area of Mexico is volcanic, and 
in the area surrounding the city are places such as the Naolinco volcanic 
field. Located north of the city, it consists of a broad area of scattered 
quaternary pyroclastic cones and associated basaltic lava flows. Situated 
east, about 50 km (31 mi) away along Mexican Federal Highway 140 is the 
Cofre de Perote National Park. The park covers an area of 117 km2 (29,000 
acres), and consists of mainly forested mountains and hills. Its highest 
point of Cerro de Macuiltépetl rises 1522 metres above sea level. Other 
hills of prominence include the Cerro de Acalotépetl and the Cerro Colorado. 
From Xalapa you can also see the Pico de Orizaba, the highest peak in Mexico 
(5,366m or 18,490 feet). It is also the third highest peak in North America. 
Hydrographically, there are numerous streams and springs which are in the 
area around the city.[28] These include the rivers: Sedeño River, Carneros 
River, Sordo River, Santiago River, Zapotillo River, Castillo River and 
the Coapexpan River, 3 artificial lakes and the springs Chiltoyac, Ánimas, 
Xallitic, Techacapan and Tlalnecapan.[28] Jalcomulco is located 39 km (24 mi) 
southeast of Xalapa which has numerous natural features, such as the mouth 
of the Pescados River. Cascada de Texolo (Texolo Waterfall) is located 
19 km (12 mi) southwest of Xalapa, in the town of Xico. It is an 80 meters 
(260 feet) waterfall that drops into a lush canyon, home to numerous animal 
species. Xalapa features a humid subtropical climate (Cfa) that borders 
on a subtropical highland climate (Cfb) under the Köppen climate classification. 
The climate in Xalapa is semi-humid, but the city is relatively cool being 
located in the mountains over 1400 metres above sea level. The climate 
can be variable, having a maximum temperature of 37.3 °C and a minimum 
ranging from 0 °C to 10 °C, but on average the temperature does not fluctuate 
greatly all year round with an average annual temperature of 18 °C. The 
warmer season in Xalapa tends to fall between March and reaching a peak 
in May when the average high reaches 28 °C and low of 17 °C. The cooler 
season is late December, January and February with an average low of 11 °C 
and an average high of 22 °C. The average annual precipitation is 1509.1 mm.[30] 
During the cooler winter months rainfall is at a minimum, with Xalapa receiving 
only 42 millimetes in January and 38 millimetres in February on average. 
Snow, however, is common in winter outside the city at Perote, located 
around 35 minutes from Xalapa. Very early in the morning, Xalapa often 
has a mist, giving it a characteristic mountain atmosphere. The greatest 
rainfall occurs during the summer months, particularly in June, when on 
average rainfall reaches 328 millimetres, remaining relatively high until 
mid-September. Xalapa is often called the “Flower Garden of Mexico”[27] 
and flowers play an important role in the economy. Xalapa is one of the 
most important places for coffee production in Mexico due to its ideal 
climate, and coffee beans are grown on both small holdings and large estates 
in the surrounding mountains.[27] The tobacco industry also forms a part 
of the local economy with the process of producing cigarettes, and the 
growing of tropical fruits.[27] Processed foods and beverages are also 
produced in Xalapa. The municipality has a total surface of 5,261,400 hectares, 
of which 3,457,363 hectares are seeded for agricultural production.[33] 
The main agricultural products in the municipality of Xalapa are maize, 
sugar cane, orange green chili and coffee.[33] Approximately 4,500 hectares 
is dedicated to cattle ranching, including the rearing of pigs, horses, 
and goats.[33] Bird-raising and avicultural farms have certain importance 
in Xalapa.[33] Warehouses and factories for making footwear, clothes, and 
books are also present in Xalapa. As of 2005, the municipality had 75 hotels, 
223 restaurants, and 25 travel agencies. The supermarket chain Chedraui 
is based in Xalapa.[33] Employment structure in Xalapa in 2005: Coordinates: 
19°32′24″N 96°55′39″W﻿ / ﻿19.54000°N 96.92750°W﻿ / 19.54000; -96.92750 
