XEPRS-AM, known as The Mighty 1090 (formerly XX Sports Radio), is an American-operated 
sports talk radio station targeting English-speaking listeners in San Diego. 
Its signal originates from Rosarito, Baja California, Mexico, and it broadcasts 
in English out of studios in San Diego. XEPRS was the flagship station 
of the San Diego Padres from 2004-2016,[2] San Diego Toreros men's basketball, 
San Diego State Aztecs football and basketball, and the San Diego Gulls. 
The station also used to air games for the Anaheim Ducks. Wolfman Jack 
immortalized XEPRS in the George Lucas movie American Graffiti. XEPRS is 
a Class A, 50,000 Watt clear-channel station with a non-directional antenna 
daytime, and a three-tower array (directional) during nighttime hours (sunset 
to sunrise).[3] XEPRS broadcasts on the frequency of 1090 kHz, a United 
States and Mexican clear-channel frequency. Today's 1090 AM started out 
as 150,000-watt XERB on 730 kHz.[4] The original concession was awarded 
to Manuel P. Barbachano, grandson of one-time governor of Yucatán Miguel 
Barbachano. The concession was sold to Radiodifusora Internacional, S.A., 
in 1939; not long after, the station moved from 730 to 1090. XERB was sold 
to Interamericana de Radio, S.A., in 1950. In the early 1960s, Robert Weston 
Smith (a.k.a. Wolfman Jack) was living in Del Rio, Texas and appearing 
on the "border blaster" AM radio station XERF. After several violent incidents 
at XERF's transmitter, Smith and partner Marvin Kosofsky (called "Mo Burton" 
in Wolfman Jack's autobiography) purchased daytime-only AM station KUXL 
in 1964 in Minneapolis / St. Paul, Minnesota. Smith relocated to Minnesota 
and never appeared as Wolfman Jack on KUXL, but rather worked as the station's 
general manager while shipping Wolfman shows on tape to XERF. In 1965, 
Smith made an arrangement with the U.S. agent for XERB in Baja California. 
Smith began selling ad time on the Mighty 1090 and recording Wolfman Jack 
shows for his new affiliate. Initially, Smith controlled the station's 
affairs from Minneapolis/St. Paul, Minnesota, and in 1966, Smith, along 
with fellow KUXL staffers Ralph Hull (a.k.a. Preacher Paul Anthony and 
The Nazz) and Art Hoehn (a.k.a. Fat Daddy Washington), relocated to Southern 
California to run XERB full-time. Wolfman and his associates were able 
to make the station turn a huge profit by selling programming to radio 
proselytizers in 15-30 minute blocks. Because they had such a large following 
and made so much money, the radio evangelists were never too hesitant about 
paying huge fees for airtime. Wolfman began broadcasting pre-recorded shows 
on three different Mexican stations at different times of the day: XERB, 
XERF, and XEG 1050 kHz in Monterrey, Nuevo León. According to his biography, 
by 1971 Wolfman was making a profit of almost $50,000 a month. The Mexican 
company executives that leased XERB noticed this and got greedy. They wanted 
to throw him out and make all the money themselves. The owners bribed Mexican 
officials into politically squeezing Wolfman off the air. The Mexican government 
acquiesced by passing a law prohibiting Pentecostal or religious programming 
on Mexican airwaves. Since XERB made most of its profits from airtime sold 
to the prayer-cloth preachers, Wolfman could no longer make payments to 
the owners each month. "That was it," Wolfman remembered. "In one stroke 
they cleaned out 80 percent of all the money we were expecting to make." 
He and Kosofsky had to return control of the station to the Mexican owners. 
With Wolfman out of the way, the station owners tried to duplicate his 
successful formula. They changed the letters to XEPRS-AM and programmed 
soul music, calling the station “The Soul Express.”[5] Wolfman still broadcast 
for over a year while under the new ownership but left soon afterwards. 
April 15, 1972 was the last day Wolfman ever held sway over the Mexican 
border airwaves. Airchecks of that last show are still available online. 
Taped versions of the Wolfman could be heard on the station around 1980.[6] 
In the summer of 1972, George Lucas and crew would film Wolfman on location 
at station KRE/AM in Berkeley, California, playing himself for the film, 
American Graffiti. Although the movie shows Wolfman broadcasting live from 
California, the Brinkley Act made such broadcasting impossible. Artistic 
license was taken with the subject material for the sake of the script.[7] 
Soon afterwards, the Mexican government repealed their own law and put 
the preachers back on the air. But, without Wolfman Jack howling over the 
airwaves, the station never even remotely saw the success that he had achieved.[citation 
needed] The XERB callsign was recycled in 1986 for a radio station in Cozumel, 
Quintana Roo with no relation to the old XERB. XEPRS aired a variety of 
formats, all of them in Spanish, with one exception. From 1976 to the early 
1980s, Rick Ward, along with his business partner Ron Beaton (KIEV Glendale, 
California), programmed oldies and controlled the 6 PM to 6 AM skywave 
signal. Ron Beaton is retired and still in Glendale, California, and Rick 
Ward is retired, living in Little Rock, Arkansas. Wolfman's old shows were 
broadcast from 11 pm to 1 AM PT on Saturday nights during this period. 
Early in the 1980s, DJ Sean Green[8] (no known relation to former Major 
League Baseball players Sean Green or Shawn Green), calling the station 
XPRS (after the name International Record(s) / XPRS incorporated), as Wolfman 
Jack had, or "1090 Express Radio", hosted a daily oldies show, originally 
from 7 PM to midnight Pacific Time, in English. The show's advertisements, 
announced by Dick "Huggy Boy" Hugg, were invariably for oldies albums that 
appealed to the Lowrider culture.[9][10] The last format was salsa, merengue 
and other forms of Spanish-language tropical music and was called "Radio 
Caliente." From 2000 to 2002, XEPRS was the radio station of the Anaheim 
Angels in Spanish, including its championship year of 2002. With XTRA Sports 
690, a Clear Channel-operated radio station based out of San Diego sold 
to their Los Angeles counterpart in December 2001, several of the on-air 
talent were released, including Bill Werndl, John Kentera, and others. 
Filling the void of what would have been a lack of a sports station focusing 
on San Diego, former head of programming of XTRA Sports 690 John Lynch 
formed Broadcast Company of the Americas, and launched The Mighty 1090 
in March 2003 with most of the on-air talent released from Clear Channel 
after the sale of XETRA-AM. Beginning February 1, 2006, XEPRS started simulcasting 
its sports talk programming on a Mighty 1090 sister station, XHPRS 105.7 
(La Pantera) out of Tecate, Baja California. This operation was aimed at 
bettering the station's signals to Eastern San Diego County and other California 
listeners. The station then became known as XX (Double X) Sports Radio. 
The company responsible for the station's programming and sales, Broadcast 
Company of the Americas, was founded by John Lynch, a businessman and father 
of the Denver Broncos defensive back of the same name. Lynch was also once 
the owner of XETRA, a/k/a "The Mighty 690" and introduced Lee "Hacksaw" 
Hamilton to San Diego sports radio. The station also includes news updates 
produced by fellow San Diego television station KUSI, whose owner, Mike 
McKinnon, and XX Sports Radio owner John Lynch Sr. have a personal relationship. 
On April 15, 2008 at 9:00 AM, XX Sports Radio stopped broadcasting programming 
to 105.7 FM, which became an oldies radio station branded as "105.7 The 
Walrus." This was the first FM oldies station in San Diego since XHOCL-FM 
flipped to a Spanish language format on September 1, 2005. As a result 
of the simulcast's break-up (except for Padres games), XX Sports Radio 
was renamed XX 1090. In 2009, the Padres simulcasts moved to XEPE-AM 1700. 
On October 6, 2010, XX 1090 became a part-time affiliate of ESPN Radio 
simulcasting sister station ESPN Radio 1700 in overnights and weekends, 
dropping the Sporting News Radio affiliation XEPRS held since 2008. On 
December 17, 2012, the station re-branded as "The Mighty 1090" to coincide 
with the return of the Scott & BR Show.[11] On January 2, 2013, the station 
became the San Diego station for CBS Sports Radio with a line-up featuring 
