XM Satellite Radio (XM) was one of the three satellite radio (SDARS) and 
online radio services in the United States and Canada, operated by Sirius 
XM Holdings. It provided pay-for-service radio, analogous to cable television. 
Its service included 73 different music channels, 39 news, sports, talk 
and entertainment channels, 21 regional traffic and weather channels and 
23 play-by-play sports channels. XM channels were identified by Arbitron 
with the label "XM" (e.g., "XM32" for "The Bridge"). The company had its 
origins in the 1988 formation of the American Mobile Satellite Corporation 
(AMSC), a consortium of several organizations originally dedicated to satellite 
broadcasting of telephone, fax, and data signals. In 1992, AMSC established 
a unit called the American Mobile Radio Corporation dedicated to developing 
a satellite-based digital radio service; this was spun off as XM Satellite 
Radio Holdings, Inc. in 1999. The satellite service was officially launched 
on September 25, 2001. On July 29, 2008, XM and former competitor Sirius 
Satellite Radio formally completed their merger, following U.S. Federal 
Communications Commission (FCC) approval, forming Sirius XM Radio, Inc. 
with XM Satellite Radio, Inc. as its subsidiary.[1] On November 12, 2008, 
Sirius and XM began broadcasting with their new, combined channel lineups.[2] 
On January 13, 2011, XM Satellite Radio, Inc. was dissolved as a separate 
entity and merged into Sirius XM Radio, Inc.[3] Prior to its merger with 
Sirius, XM was the largest satellite radio company in the United States. 
While the satellite receiver radio service was its primary product, XM 
operated several audio and data services, and advertising. XM's primary 
business was satellite radio entertainment. XM carried music, news (both 
simulcast and syndicated programming), sports, talk radio, comedy (both 
stand-up and radio shows), and even radio drama. In addition, XM used to 
broadcast local weather and traffic conditions in its larger markets. The 
channel lineup was available on-line.[4] To receive satellite radio programming, 
a customer was required to purchase a receiver. Prices ranged from less 
than $50 to over $200. With a service commitment, it was possible to get 
a simple receiver for free. Monthly packages started at US$14.49/month[5] 
(changed since 2011 from US$12.95/month) with add-on "family" radios at 
US$8.99/month. Best-of-Sirius was available on US accounts for an additional 
monthly fee. Lifetime packages were also available (USA only). Channel 
quality was in one of two flavors, stereo music channels at 39 kbit/s and 
mono talk channels at 16 kbit/s using proprietary compression. Many subscribers 
have complained about the low quality of satellite radio sound. But providers 
have stuck with the plan for more channels instead of better quality. HD 
terrestrial digital radio, a competitor has always used this difference 
as a selling point. XM Radio Online (XMRO), XM's Internet radio product, 
offered many of XM's music stations and could be accessed from any Internet 
connected Windows or Macintosh computer, or via the iPhone/iPod Touch SIRIUS 
XM app. Prior to March 11, 2009, XMRO was included with XM Radio subscriptions, 
or was available separately for $7.99/month to Internet-only subscribers. 
XM also provided data services such as weather information for pilots and 
weather spotters through its Sirius XM Weather & Emergency datacasting 
service. This up to the minute weather information could be displayed in 
the cockpit of an aircraft equipped with a satellite weather receiver. 
Unlike weather radar, which relies on the aircraft's own equipment, the 
satellite service could give a pilot information about weather anywhere 
in USA and Canada. The downside is that the various weather streams (radar, 
cloud coverage, lightning, forecast, TAF, FA, etc...) took around 15 minutes 
to complete the data download, meaning that the information can somewhat 
be out-of-date by the time it is shown. In-cockpit radar and lightning 
receivers returned truly realtime information, but they costed many thousands 
of dollars, and did not provide forecasts and complete weather reports. 
FAA Temporary Flight Restrictions ( TFRs) were also available and shown. 
Certain aircraft had the XM radio service into the aircraft's audio system, 
as well, which allowed passengers to listen to XM radio while flying.[6][7] 
In 2005, AirTran Airways began putting XM Satellite Radio on their aircraft, 
while in January 2006, JetBlue Airways added XM Radio to their aircraft. 
United Airlines started carrying prerecorded XM content in March 2006. 
Zipcar, an urban car-sharing service in the United States, initially installed 
XM receivers in all of their vehicles available for daily or hourly rental. 
However, citing uncertainty in the satellite radio market, Zipcar announced 
on May 1, 2007 that all XM radios would be removed from its fleet in the 
following months. In contrast to its high-quality broadcasts, Sirius/XM's 
customer service has drawn fire from some state governments. In October 
2010, Richard Cordray, Ohio's Attorney General, began investigating complaints 
regarding Sirius XM's policies on billing, customer solicitation as well 
as subscription renewals and cancellations. The company informed shareholders 
of the probe shortly thereafter. According to news reports, Arizona, Connecticut, 
Tennessee, Vermont, and the District of Columbia have expressed interest 
in participating in the inquiry. According to Reuters, "The investigations 
come as Sirius XM, home to programs by Howard Stern and Oprah Winfrey, 
has found its footing and distanced itself from years of huge losses and 
questions about its business model."[8] In a report obtained in March 2011, 
The Better Business Bureau reported receiving over 4500 complaints against 
Sirius XM in the preceding 36 months, around half of which regarded the 
company's billing and collection practices. [9] In Missouri, some people 
registered on the state's do-not-call list have complained about receiving 
repeated calls from Sirius XM workers or agents after cancelling their 
subscriptions. Some Florida customers have reported being billed for automatic 
renewals of accounts they had canceled. Further, Sirius XM was sued in 
federal court by a customer accusing it of deceptively raising prices.[8] 
The report also stated that "Sirius, in a statement, said it was cooperating 
with the investigations and that it believed its 'consumer-related practices 
comply with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations.'"[8] 
XM provided digital programming directly from two high-powered satellites 
in geostationary orbit above the equator: XM Rhythm at 85° west longitude 
and XM Blues at 115° west longitude[29] in addition to a network of ground-based 
repeaters. The combination of two satellites and a ground-based repeater 
network was designed to provide gap-free coverage anywhere within the contiguous 
U.S., the southern tip of Alaska, and in the southern part of Canada. The 
signal could also be received in the Caribbean Islands and most of Mexico 
(reports have stated that areas north of Acapulco were able to receive 
a steady signal[30]), however XM is not yet licensed for reception by paid 
subscribers living in these areas. The original satellites, XM-1 ("Rock") 
and XM-2 ("Roll") suffered from a generic design fault on the Boeing 702 
series of satellites (fogging of the solar panels), which means that their 
lifetimes were shortened to approximately six years instead of the design 
goal of 15 years.[31][32] To compensate for this flaw, XM-3 ("Rhythm") 
was launched ahead of its planned schedule on February 28, 2005 and moved 
into XM-1's previous location of 85° WL. XM-1 was then moved to be co-located 
with XM-2 at 115° WL, where each satellite operated only one transponder 
(thus broadcasting half the bandwidth each) to conserve energy and cut 
the power consumption in half while XM-4 ("Blues") was readied for launch. 
Subsequently, XM launched ground-spare XM-4 ("Blues") ahead of schedule 
on October 30, 2006 into the 115° WL location to complete the satellite 
replacement program. On December 15, 2006 XM-1 was then powered down and 
drifted back to its original location at 85° WL, where it will remain as 
a backup to XM-3. XM-2 as well was powered down and remains as a backup 
to XM-4. This makes the current active satellites as XM-3 "Rhythm" and 
XM-4 "Blues" with two in-orbit spares.[12][33] On June 7, 2005, Space Systems/Loral 
announced that it had been awarded a contract for XM-5.[34][35] XM-5 will 
feature two large unfurlable antennas. Sirius' Radiosat 5, also to be built 
by Loral, will have a similar single large antenna. In American and Canadian 
metropolitan areas, XM and its Canadian licensee "Canadian Satellite Radio" 
(CSR) and operating as Sirius XM Canada, owned and operated a network of 
approximately 900 terrestrial repeater stations, meant to compensate for 
satellite signal blockage by buildings, tunnels, and bridges. In the United 
States XM owned and operated approximately 800 repeater sites covering 
60 markets; in Canada CSR was installing approximately 80 to 100 repeaters 
that was planned to be owned and operated by CSR in the 16 largest Canadian 
cities. The actual number of repeater sites varies as the signal is regularly 
tested and monitored for optimal performance. The actual number of sites 
in the United States has dropped from the original 1,000 installed when 
the service first launched in 2001. The repeaters transmit in the same 
frequency band as the satellites. A typical city contains 20 or more terrestrial 
stations. Typically, the receiver owner is unaware when a terrestrial station 
is being used, unless he or she checks antenna information from the receiver 
being used. Due to a FCC filing in October 2006, the latest list of XM's 
US terrestrial repeater network was made available to the public. The XM 
signal used 12.5 MHz of the S band: 2332.5 to 2345.0 MHz. XM provided 128 
kilobits per second of its bandwidth to OnStar Corporation for use with 
XM-enabled GM vehicles, regardless of whether their owners are XM subscribers. 
American Honda also retained the right to some of the company's bandwidth 
to transmit messages to Acura vehicles via a service known as AcuraLink. 
XM NavTraffic, an optional service, transmitted coded traffic information 
directly to vehicle navigation systems using TMC technology. Audio channels 
on XM were digitally compressed using the CT-aacPlus (HE-AAC) codec from 
Coding Technologies for most channels, and the AMBE codec from Digital 
Voice Systems for some voice channels, including all of the Traffic and 
Weather channels. The XM radio signal was broadcast on 6 separate radio 
carriers within the 12.5 MHz allocation. The entire content of the radio 
service, including both data and audio content, was represented by only 
two carriers. The other 4 carriers carried duplicates of the same content 
to achieve redundancy through signal diversity. The data on each carrier 
is encoded using time-delayed and error-correction schemes to enhance availability. 
Effectively the total radio spectrum used for content is a little over 
4 MHz.[36] Each two-carrier group broadcast 100 8-kilobit-per-second streams 
in approximately 4 MHz of radio spectrum. These streams were combined using 
a patented process to form a variable number of channels using a variety 
of bitrates. Bandwidth is separated into segments of 4-kilobit-per-second 
virtual "streams" which are combined to form audio and data "channels" 
of varying bitrates from 4 to 64 kilobits-per-second.[37] XM preprocessed 
audio content using Neural Audio processors that are optimized for the 
aacPlus codec, including spectral band replication (SBR). Audio was stored 
digitally in Dalet audio library systems using an industry-standard MPEG-1 
Layer II at 384 kbit/s, sometimes known as MUSICAM. The audio is further 
processed by the Neural Audio processors on the way to broadcast. In the 
past, the Sirius XM Pops channel, which aired classical music, was broadcast 
in 5.1 surround sound audio quality. The technology, titled XM HD Surround, 
is the result of a partnership between XM and Neural Audio Corporation 
which provides content with six discrete channels of digital audio. The 
former XM Live channel also broadcast in this format for certain concerts 
and studio performances. XM manufacturing partners such as Denon, Onkyo, 
Pioneer Electronics (USA) Inc., and Yamaha introduced home audio systems 
capable of playing XM HD Surround. It is not known if the XM HD Surround 
technology is used on the service in 2015. As part of terrestrial radio 
giant Clear Channel Communications' early investment into XM in 1998, the 
companies entered into agreements which provided for certain programming 
and director designation arrangements as long as Clear Channel retained 
the full amount of its original investment in XM. One positive consequence 
of this was that XM had (and still has) exclusive programming rights to 
all Clear Channel content, including popular national shows like Coast 
to Coast AM, but the shows could only be broadcast inside the bandwidth 
controlled by Clear Channel. In June 2003, Clear Channel entered into a 
forward sales agreement relating to its ownership of XM. During the third 
quarter of 2005, Clear Channel and XM arbitrated the impact of this agreement 
on the Operational Assistance Agreement and the Director Designation Agreement. 
The Arbitration Panel decided that the Operational Assistance Agreement 
would remain in effect, including Clear Channel's right to receive a revenue 
share of commercial advertising on programming it provides to XM, but declined 
to enforce the Director Designation Agreement, which forced the Mays family 
members off the board of directors. Per the original agreement, Clear Channel 
had the right to program 409.6 kbit/s (or 10%) of XM bandwidth, requiring 
XM to include commercial advertising on the existing Nashville!, KISS, 
Mix, and Sunny (now The Music Summit). The amount of advertising on the 
music channels amounts up to 4 minutes per hour, similar to the amount 
of advertising XM included before going commercial free. Exceptions include 
syndicated music shows which carry network spots. Clear Channel advertising 
on XM is handled by its subsidiary, Premiere Radio Networks. Clear Channel 
also provided existing talk channel programming (Fox Sports Radio, Extreme 
XM, Talk Radio). Clear Channel also controlled America Right (formerly 
Buzz XM), but through a series of show swaps, most non-Clear Channel content 
was removed and programming control returned to XM Radio. Plans to introduce 
new regional based talk channels, which would have featured a regional 
5 minute newscast for each area of the country, were canceled. Instead, 
Clear Channel chose to introduce other music and talk channels. Newer channels 
including ReachMD, America's Talk remain on the air. The Pink Channel, 
National Lampoon Comedy Radio, WSIX-FM, WLW, and Rock@Random were launched 
and later removed, and replaced by channels like Bollywood & Beyond, The 
Music Summit, and Sixx Sense, all of which are on the air today. Seen as 
a blow to XM's 100% commercial-free music channel status, XM Executive 
Vice President of Programming Eric Logan released a programming announcement 
to XM subscribers on the company's website that reiterated XM's commitment 
to commercial-free music while noting that XM still had the most commercial-free 
music and that more commercial-free music channels will be added in the 
near future to ensure that XM will still have more commercial-free music 
than competitor Sirius Satellite Radio. On April 17, 2006, XM launched 
US Country (XM17), Flight 26 (XM26), XM Hitlist (XM30) and Escape (XM78) 
to provide commercial free music in the formats of the Clear Channel programmed 
music channels which were going to begin airing commercials. In response, 
Sirius has advertised that they are the only satellite radio provider that 
has 100% commercial-free music channels. Both XM and Sirius air commercials 
on their news, talk, and sports channels. The Clear Channel forward sales 
agreement with Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc was terminated on August 2, 2006. 
The termination resulted in Clear Channel Investments, Inc. paying Bear 
Stearns a total of $83.1 million, which was the value of Clear Channel's 
stake in XM. The accreted value of the debt was $92.9 million, and the 
fair value of the collar was an asset of $6.0 million, which resulted in 
a net gain of $3.8 million for Clear Channel.[38] In 2006, XM Satellite 
Radio was sued by the RIAA over XM's new portable devices the Inno and 
Helix. The RIAA claims these devices are equivalent to a downloading service, 
whereas XM contends the devices are protected under the 1992 Audio Home 
Recording Act. In July, XM requested that a federal judge dismiss the case. 
It should be noted that XM's subscribers can save only songs they hear 
on the radio and cannot request a specific song to be downloaded or program 
their radios to record specific artists. XM's portable devices allow the 
consumer to record a portion of their broadcast much like a VCR, DVR, or 
cassette player would allow. The content a subscriber records is available 
only while the subscriber still has an active account with XM Satellite 
Radio. Once the account is terminated, the recorded content will become 
inaccessible. Also, If a subscriber fails to listen to a total of 8 hours 
of programming a month, the recorded content will not be accessible. Recorded 
content can be accessed only on the portable device; it cannot be transferred 
to a home computer or separate digital music player. The idea is not new: 
TimeTrax Technologies Corporation, led by CEO Elliott Frutkin, developed 
an application to record songs to MP3 and tag them with the artist and 
title information directly from the XM network. In 2005, XM attempted to 
thwart this practice by discontinuing the required XM PCR radio. TimeTrax 
responded by quickly rolling out adaptive interfaces to allow almost any 
XM subscriber to use their tuner to build music libraries directly from 
XM broadcasts. There is speculation that these fumbles by XM and its attitude 
towards the Time Trax technology may have been the warning shot of major 
troubles between the RIAA and XM. On January 19, 2007, a district judge 
ruled that the RIAA could proceed with the lawsuit, rejecting XM's defense 
that the conduct alleged in the complaint—if proved by the RIAA—would be 
immune under the Audio Home Recording Act of 1991.[39] At the heart of 
the TimeTrax controversy was the XM PCR: a computer-controlled XM Receiver. 
Unlike the other receivers, which could be used in the car or home stereo, 
the XM PCR required a computer to run. A software application on the computer 
acted as the radio's controls and display, which led to a flurry of third 
party developers, who wanted to make a PCR replacement. Many of them received 
Cease and Desist letters from the XM company[not in citation given]. Once 
the PCR was discontinued, for the reasons listed above, people found that 
the XM Direct, a receiver intended to be used in satellite-ready car stereos, 
can be connected to a computer with a very simple adapter cable. Some people 
have dubbed the entire kit, with receiver, cable, and software, the Direct 
PCR. While the original PCR software does not control the XM Direct receiver, 
several community developers have continued to develop PCR replacement 
software. On February 19, 2007, XM announced a merger deal with Sirius 
Satellite Radio. The merger combined the two radio services and created 
a single Satellite Radio network in the United States and Canada.[15] The 
United States Department of Justice announced on March 24, 2008 that it 
had closed its investigation of the merger because it "concluded that the 
evidence does not demonstrate that the proposed merger of XM and Sirius 
was likely to substantially lessen competition."[40] On June 16, 2008, 
FCC Chairman Kevin Martin told the Washington Post that he had decided 
to approve the XM-Sirius Merger after the companies agreed in the previous 
week to concessions intended to prevent the new company from raising prices 
or stifling competition. Martin issued an order to approve the merger, 
according to The Wall Street Journal – setting the stage for a final vote 
which could have occurred any time after his recommendation was circulated. 
The XM-Sirius Merger gained its final governmental approval from the Federal 
Communications Commission on July 25, 2008, with Martin and commissioners 
Robert M. McDowell and deciding vote Deborah Taylor Tate voting in the 
affirmative. As a term of the merger, the combined company will be fined 
almost $20 million for failing to create and market interchangeable radios 
capable of receiving signals from both companies prior to the merger.[23] 
XM developed a software application for use on the Apple iPhone and Apple 
iPod Touch devices that allowed XM subscribers to listen to its programming 
over the Apple devices. The Sirius XM iPhone App became available in the 
Apple iTunes Store on June 17, 2009. All SiriusXM Internet Radio subscribers 
are able to download the application from the Apple iTunes App-Store for 
free. Listening on an iPhone/iPad/iPod Touch is included with some subscription 
packages, a separate fee is required with other packages. SiriusXM debuted 
a new web page [1] to market the application. On February 4, 2010, SiriusXM 
released an app for the Research In Motion BlackBerry line of smartphones, 
including the Storm (Series 9500), Bold (Series 9000 and 9700), Tour (Series 
9600) and Curve (Series 8500 and 8900). Like the Apple iPhone/iPod Touch 
application, the BlackBerry app is free but requires a SiriusXM subscription. 
SiriusXM is also available for download on Android devices through Google 
Play. The applications carry most of the XM music, talk, sports and entertainment 
programming, as well as some exclusive Internet-only content. The mobile 
applications also carry a select number of channels from the "Best of SIRIUS/XM" 
packages, dependent on the subscriber's subscription level. In November 
2004, Canadian Satellite Radio filed an application with the Canadian Radio-television 
and Telecommunications Commission to bring the XM service to Canada. Along 
with Sirius Canada and the consortium of CHUM Limited and Astral Media, 
CSR was one of three applications for national subscription radio services 
submitted to the CRTC. On June 16, 2005, the CRTC approved all three applications. 
The decisions were appealed to the Canadian federal cabinet by a number 
of broadcasting, labour, and arts and culture organizations, including 
the Friends of Canadian Broadcasting, CHUM Limited, and the National Campus 
and Community Radio Association. The groups objected to the satellite radio 
applicants' approach to and reduced levels of Canadian content and French-language 
programming, along with the exclusion of Canadian non-commercial broadcasting. 
After a lengthy debate, Cabinet rejected the appeals on September 9, 2005. 
XM's Canadian channels appeared on US receivers on November 17, 2005. On 
