"Y.M.C.A." is a song by the American disco group Village People. It was 
released in 1978 as the only single from their third studio album Cruisin' 
(1978). The song reached number 2 on the US charts in early 1979 and reached 
number 1 in the UK around the same time, becoming the group's biggest hit. 
It is one of fewer than forty singles to have sold 10 million (or more) 
physical copies worldwide. A medley with "Hot Cop" reached number 2 on 
Billboard's Dance Music/Club Play Singles chart.[1] The song remains popular 
and is played at many sporting events in the U.S. and Europe, with crowds 
using the dance in which the arms are used to spell out the four letters 
of the song's title as an opportunity to stretch. Moreover, the song also 
remains particularly popular due to its status as a disco classic. "Y.M.C.A." 
appeared as Space Shuttle Wakeup call on mission STS-106, on day 11.[2] 
In 2009, "Y.M.C.A." was entered into the Guinness World Book of Records 
when over 44,000 people danced to the song with Village People singing 
live at the 2008 Sun Bowl game in El Paso, Texas.[3] "Y.M.C.A." is number 
7 on VH1's list of The 100 Greatest Dance Songs of the 20th Century.[4] 
The Village People was an American disco group created by Jacques Morali 
and Henry Belolo in 1977.[5] According to Marjorie Burgess, it all began 
when Morali went to a New York gay bar one night and noticed dancer Felipe 
Rose dressed as a Native American. Morali then spotted Rose again one week 
later dressed in Indian garb. Rose happened to be dancing near one man 
dressed as a cowboy and another wearing a construction hat. "And after 
that I say to myself," Morali told Rolling Stone’s Emerson, "‘You know, 
this is fantastic’—to see the cowboy, the Indian, the construction worker 
with other men around. And also, I think in myself that the gay people 
have no group, nobody to personalize the gay people, you know? And I say 
to Felipe, ‘One of these days I’m going to employ you.’" Morali began to 
produce disco records with masculine stereotypes in mind that same week.[5] 
Victor Willis, lead singer and lyricist, recalls that while in the studio, 
Morali asked him, "What exactly is the YMCA?" After Willis explained it 
to him, he saw the expression on Morali's face and said, "Don't tell me 
Jacques, you want to write a song about it?" and they quickly wrote the 
track for the album Cruisin'.[6] Upon its release, the YMCA threatened 
to sue the band over trademark infringement. The organization ultimately 
settled with the composers out of court[7] and later expressed pride regarding 
the song saluting the organization.[8] The song became a number 1 hit throughout 
the world (although not in the United States where it was kept out of the 
top spot by Rod Stewart's "Do Ya Think I'm Sexy?"). It has remained popular 
at parties, sporting events, weddings and functions ever since. In 2011, 
Willis filed a notice of copyright termination to the song as lyricist 
under the Copyright Act of 1976 which allows recording artists and writers 
to reclaim their master recordings and publishing. In a landmark ruling 
in 2012, the United States District Court for the Southern District of 
California ruled that Willis can terminate his copyrights granted to the 
publishers Can't Stop Productions and Scorpio Music because "a joint author 
who separately transfers his copyright interest may unilaterally terminate 
the grant."[9] YMCA and other hits written by Willis (for Village People 
and other Can't Stop acts) began to revert to him on September 13, 2013.[10] 
On March 4, 2015, it was determined that the sole writers of the song are 
Morali and Willis and the name Belolo has been removed. Willis now owns 
50% of the song previously credited to Belolo.[11] Taken at face value, 
the song's lyrics extol the virtues of the Young Men's Christian Association. 
In the gay culture from which the Village People sprang, the song was implicitly 
understood as celebrating the YMCA's reputation as a popular cruising and 
hookup spot, particularly for the younger men to whom it was addressed.[12] 
Willis, the group's lead singer and lyricist, said through his publicist 
that he did not write "Y.M.C.A." as a gay anthem[13] but as a reflection 
of young urban black youth fun at the YMCA such as basketball and swimming. 
That said, he has often acknowledged[citation needed] his fondness for 
double entendre. Willis says that he wrote the song in Vancouver, British 
Columbia.[14] The initial goal of Morali and Belolo was to attract disco's 
gay audience by featuring popular gay fantasy.[15] Although the two creators 
of the group were gay and initially intended to target gay men, the other 
group members were straight men, who simply enjoyed disco culture. Therefore, 
the group became more popular and more mainstream over time.[16] The song, 
played in the key of G♭ major, begins with a brass riff, backed by the 
constant pulse that typified disco. Many different instruments are used 
throughout for an overall orchestral feel, another disco convention, but 
it is brass that stands out. As with other Village People hits, the lead 
vocals are handled by Willis and the background vocals are supplied by 
Willis and professional background singers. The distinctive vocal line 
features the repeated "Young man!" ecphonesis followed by Willis singing 
the verse lines. The background vocals join in throughout the song. Willis's 
version of the song is used in the film, Can't Stop the Music, though by 
that time Ray Simpson had replaced him as the policeman. YMCA is also the 
name of a group dance with cheerleader Y-M-C-A choreography invented to 
fit the song. One of the phases involves moving arms to form the letters 
Y-M-C-A as they are sung in the chorus: The dance originated on Dick Clark's 
American Bandstand. During the January 6, 1979 episode, which featured 
the Village People as guests throughout the hour, the dance was performed 
by audience members while the group performed "YMCA." Clark then said to 
Willis that he would like to show him something. Clark again played the 
song with the audience doing the YMCA hand gestures. Willis immediately 
picked up on the dance and mimicked the hand movements back at the audience 
as other Village People members stared at him with puzzled looks. Clark 
then turned to Willis and said, "Victor, think you can work this dance 
into your routine?" Willis responded, "I think we're gonna have to."[18] 
In a 2008 retrospective article for Spin, Randy Jones has opined that the 
dance may have originated as a misunderstanding: The group's original choreographed 
dance had the group clapping above their heads during the chorus and he 
believes that the audience, believing them to be making the letter "Y", 
began following suit.[19] Following the sixth inning of New York Yankees 
baseball games at Yankee Stadium, the grounds crew traditionally grooms 
the infield while leading the crowd in the dance.[20] In July 2008, Village 
People performed "Y.M.C.A." with the Yankees grounds crew at the last MLB 
All-Star Game held at the old Yankee Stadium. Similarly at the Sapporo 
Dome, during Hokkaido Nippon-Ham Fighters baseball games, "Y.M.C.A." is 
enthusiastically enjoyed by the crowd and ground staff during the fifth 
inning stretch.[citation needed] *sales figures based on certification 
alone ^shipments figures based on certification alone President Bush, he 
said to me: 'Colin, I know you will agree. I need you to run the Department 
