Yahoo Sports is a sports news website launched by Yahoo! on December 8, 
1997. It receives a majority of its information from STATS, Inc.,[2] employs 
various writers, and has team pages for teams in almost every North American 
sport. (Before the launch of Yahoo Sports, certain elements of the site 
were known as Yahoo Scoreboard.) The United States edition of Yahoo Sports 
covers many sports, including NFL, MLB, NBA, NHL, College Football, College 
Basketball, NASCAR, golf, tennis, FIFA World Cup, Arena Football, Boxing, 
CFL, Cycling, IndyCar, Major League Soccer, Motor sports, Olympics, NCAA 
Baseball, NCAA Hockey, NCAA Women's Basketball, WNBA, World Cup, Track 
& Field, Cricket (UK), Figure Skating, Rugby (UK), Swimming, Mixed Martial 
Arts, and Horse Racing.[3] Yahoo Sports also previously covered the now 
defunct ABL and WUSA. Yahoo Sports employs a deep bench of award-winning 
reporters, which as of December 2012 includes Pat Forde, Adrian Wojnarowski, 
Dan Wetzel, Greg Wyshynski, Jason Cole, and Jeff Passan among others. On 
December 9, 2012, Yahoo and the NBC Sports Group announced a content and 
promotional deal[14] combining Yahoo Sports’ original reporting expertise, 
coverage of big events, Rivals’ college content and popular fantasy sports 
products with NBC Sports Group’s growing digital assets, and significant 
television promotion and integration. While Yahoo Sports and the NBC Sports 
Group will continue to maintain separate sites and editorial control of 
their respective newsrooms and digital properties, they will collaborate 
on premium sports news and events coverage both online and on the air. 
Yahoo Sports’ popular products will also be included in the NBC Sports 
Group’s digital assets. Key features of the alliance include:[15] Editorial 
Depth: The combined talent roster of Yahoo Sports and NBC Sports features 
a deep bench of award-winning reporters and commentators, such as NBC’s 
Bob Costas and Mike Florio; Yahoo Sports’ Dan Wetzel and Adrian Wojnarowski. 
Yahoo Sports’ renowned investigative reporting will be featured on NBC 
TV, giving fans multiple-platform delivery. Original Video Programming 
Concepts: Yahoo Sports and NBC Sports will work together to develop original 
made-for-web video programs that will appear on both Yahoo Sports and NBCSports.com 
featuring fan favorites from among the award-winning editorial teams’ rosters, 
including: NBC Sports host and Emmy Award-winning commentator Bob Costas: 
video sports news interviews and editorials Football Night in America’s 
Tony Dungy & Rodney Harrison: video segments during NFL season Mike Florio 
of ProFootballTalk on NBCSports.com: daily, weekday NFL web show, Pro Football 
Talk Live Rivals on Recruiting: weekly college recruiting show with Rivals 
and NBC Sports talent. Live Streaming: Yahoo Sports will link to and promote 
the NBC Sports Live Extra video player. Fans will be able to watch live 
streams of some of NBC’s biggest events, starting with Sunday Night Football 
and NHL Game of the Week. Live content from NBC Sports Network will continue 
to be distributed through NBC Sports Live Extra on a TV Everywhere basis. 
Fantasy Sports: Yahoo Sports, the leading fantasy platform, will become 
the exclusive fantasy game provider of NBC Sports’ Rotoworld, the premiere 
fantasy news and information site. This will include Yahoo Sports’ fantasy 
experiences for football, baseball, hockey, soccer, College Bowl Pick’em 
and Tourney Pick’em. Rivals.com: The college sports destination will power 
recruiting and college sporting news for NBCSports.com and the NBC Sports 
Regional Networks. NBC Sports Regional Networks: The authentic, local sports 
properties will serve as Yahoo Sports’ preferred content provider in relevant 
markets, and integrate Yahoo Sports’ team pages, fantasy experts and sports 
talent. NBC’s Alli Sports: Providing youth-focused, action-sports video 
and other content to Yahoo Sports. On Sunday, November 11, 2012 Yahoo Fantasy 
sports experienced an outage. By Monday, November 12 the problem had been 
identified and service was re-established. The Street published a story 
about this incident, telling readers that the Twitter account of Marissa 
Mayer, Yahoo's new CEO, was flooded with complaints and that Yahoo responded 
