Yakult (ヤクルト, Yakuruto?) is a probiotic dairy product made by fermenting 
a mixture of skimmed milk with a special strain of the bacterium Lactobacillus 
casei Shirota. It was created by Japanese scientist Minoru Shirota, who 
graduated from the Medical School of Kyoto University in 1930. In 1935, 
he started manufacturing and selling Yakult. Official claims state that 
the name is derived from jahurto, an Esperanto word for "yogurt".[1] Since 
then, Yakult has also introduced a line of beverages for the Japanese market 
that contain Bifidobacterium breve bacteria, and has also used its lactobacilli 
research to develop cosmetics. More recently, the Yakult Honsha played 
a major role in developing the chemotherapy drug irinotecan (Camptosar, 
CPT-11).[2] After its introduction in Japan and Taiwan, Yakult was first 
sold in Brazil in 1966,[3] due to the large number of Japanese immigrants 
in the country, before it was marketed elsewhere. Today, Yakult is sold 
in 31 countries,[4] although its bacteria cultures are provided from a 
mother strain from Japan regardless of production location.[citation needed] 
Yakult is marketed in different sizes. In Australia and New Zealand, Europe, 
India, Indonesia, and Vietnam Yakult comes in 65mL bottles. In America 
(including Mexico, one of Yakult's largest selling markets), Japan, Philippines, 
Thailand, Malaysia and South Korea, 80 ml bottles are available. It is 
also available in Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan and China where Yakult comes 
in 100 ml bottles.[5][6][7] The product is made by Yakult Honsha Co., Ltd. 
(株式会社ヤクルト本社, Kabushiki-gaisha Yakuruto Honsha?) (TYO: 2267), where Groupe 
Danone has a 20% share. The company also owns one of Japan's major baseball 
franchises, the Tokyo Yakult Swallows. It has been also one of the partner 
companies of the FINA World Aquatics Championships since 2005. Standard 
Yakult (excludes variations such as in Yakult Light) contains:[8] Standard 
Yakult contains 14g of sugar for every 100g, but comes in 65 ml bottles. 
This concentration is higher than the level defined as "HIGH" by the UK 
Food Standards Agency (described for concentrations of sugar above 15g 
per 100g).[9] As a comparison Coca-Cola and orange juice are around 10g 
of sugar per 100g, but with a serving size usually greater than 250 ml, 
while Yakult is served in much smaller doses. Based on the existence of 
many products like Yakult in the world market and the content of milk protein 
(1.4 g per 100 ml),[10] it was classified as a fermented milk named "Fermented 
Milk Drinks" of the Codex Standard. Through nutrient profiling guidelines, 
current health claim regulation in European Union may forbid the use of 
health claim on food products that are nutritionally unbalanced, but dairy 
products and probiotic drinks are likely to be considered as favourable 
carrier because their health benefits outweigh the fact they might be high 
in one of the designated 'unhealthy' ingredients.[11] According to the 
manufacturer's website, the benefits of Yakult consumption are supported 
by an array of scientific studies.[12] Those could range from maintenance 
of gut flora,[13] "modulation" of the immune system,[14] regulation of 
bowel habits and constipation[15] and finally effects on some gastrointestinal 
infections.[16] Although the number of scientific papers is large, most 
of them are based on in vitro and in vivo experiments, with some human 
clinical trials done on cohorts[17][18][19] and with daily consumption 
of 40–100 billions of probiotic L. casei Shirota,[14] far above the single 
bottle concentration of approximately 6.5 billion. In 2010, an EFSA panel 
concluded that a cause and effect relationship has not been established 
between the consumption of Lactobacillus casei strain Shirota and maintenance 
of the upper respiratory tract defence against pathogens by maintaining 
immune defences.[20] In September 2014, University College London published 
the results of testing using stomach fluids from pigs. The tests found 
that Yakult had sufficient bacteria, but "fell short" as the bacteria were 
unable to survive in the stomach. Yakult responded by claiming that independent 
studies had shown the bacteria do better in the human digestive system.[21] 
Yakult opened a factory in Fountain Valley, California in the United States 
in 2014.[22] Yakult is also manufactured in Australia in Dandenong, Victoria. 
A manufacturing plant of Yakult is situated at Haryana, India.[23] In Malaysia, 
Yakult is manufactured at their factory located at Seremban, Negeri Sembilan. 
Yakult opened a factory in Calamba, Laguna in the Philippines due to their 
popularity. Yakult Light 65ml available in Australia. Yakult 300 Light 
100ml available in Taiwan. 4 different flavours of 100ml bottles of Yakult 
available in Singapore. (Original, orange, grape, green apple) Yakult LT 
100ml available in Hong Kong. (advertised as Low-Sugar Hi-Fibre) Yakult 
Light 100ml available in Hong Kong. (discontinued, replaced by Yakult LT) 
Glass Yakult bottles used before 1968 in Japan. Philippine Yakult Brazilian 
Yakult. Greater China (Canton district excluded) Yakult. Yakult 80 ml available 
in Mexico. Thai Yakult. Philippine Yakult. Yakult 65 ml in Vietnam. Yakult 
65 ml in Italy. Yakult and Korean competitor. (H Mart in New England.) 
