The term "Yankee" and its contracted form "Yank" have several interrelated 
meanings, all referring to people from the United States. Its various senses 
depend on the scope of context. Most broadly: The informal British and 
Irish English "Yank" refers to Americans in general. It is especially popular 
among Britons and Australians and sometimes carries pejorative overtones.[4] 
The Southern American English "Yankee" is typically uncontracted and at 
least mildly pejorative. The root of the term is uncertain. In 1758, British 
General James Wolfe made the earliest recorded use of the word Yankee to 
refer to people from what became the United States. He referred to the 
New England soldiers under his command as Yankees: "I can afford you two 
companies of Yankees, and the more because they are better for ranging 
and scouting than either work or vigilance".[5] Later British use of the 
word often was derogatory, as in a cartoon of 1775 ridiculing "Yankee" 
soldiers.[5] New Englanders themselves employed the word in a neutral sense; 
the "Pennamite–Yankee War," for example, was the name given to a series 
of clashes in 1769 over land titles in Pennsylvania, in which the "Yankees" 
were the claimants from Connecticut. The meaning of Yankee has varied over 
time. In the 18th century, it referred to residents of New England descended 
from the original English settlers of the region. Mark Twain used the word 
in this sense the following century in his novel A Connecticut Yankee in 
King Arthur's Court, published in 1889. As early as the 1770s, British 
people applied the term to any person from what became the United States. 
In the 19th century, Americans in the southern United States employed the 
word in reference to Americans from the northern United States, though 
not to recent emigrants from Europe. Thus, a visitor to Richmond, Virginia 
commented in 1818, "The enterprising people are mostly strangers; Scots, 
Irish, and especially New England men, or Yankees, as they are called".[6] 
Many faulty etymologies have been devised for the word, including one by 
a British officer in 1789 who said that it was derived from the Cherokee 
word eankke ("coward"), but no such word exists in the Cherokee language.[7] 
Etymologies purporting an origin in languages of the aboriginal inhabitants 
of the United States are not well received by linguists. One such surmises 
that the word is borrowed from the Wyandot (called Huron by the French) 
pronunciation of the French l'anglais (meaning "the Englishman" or "the 
English language"), sounded as Y'an-gee.[7][8] Linguists, however, do not 
support any Indian origins.[7] James Fenimore Cooper, the writer of the 
classic tale "The Deerslayer," made a non-fiction footnote that claimed, 
"There can be little doubt that the sobriquet of 'Yankees' is derived from 
'Yengees,' the manner in which the tribes nearest to New England pronounced 
the word 'English.' The change from 'English' to 'Yengees' is very trifling." 
Fenimore Cooper's suggested etymology is rejected by professional linguists 
writing for the Merriam-Webster book of word histories, despite his being 
a prominent writer from the early 1800s and living comparatively close 
to the time when the word originated. Most linguists look to Dutch sources, 
noting the extensive interaction between the colonial Dutch in New Netherland 
(now largely New York, New Jersey, Delaware, and western Connecticut) and 
the colonial English in New England (Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and eastern 
Connecticut).[7] The Online Etymology Dictionary gives its origin as around 
1683, when it was applied insultingly to Dutch Americans (especially freebooters) 
by the English. However, it was at some point reappropriated by Dutch settlers 
of New Amsterdam who started using it against the English colonists of 
neighboring Connecticut.[9] Linguist Jan de Vries notes that there was 
mention of a pirate named Dutch Yanky in the 17th century.[10] The Life 
and Adventures of Sir Launcelot Greaves (1760) contains the passage, "Haul 
forward thy chair again, take thy berth, and proceed with thy story in 
a direct course, without yawing like a Dutch yanky."[11] Michael Quinion 
and Patrick Hanks argue that the term refers to the Dutch feminine diminutive 
name Janneke[12] or masculine diminutive name Janke,[9] which would be 
Anglicized as "Yankee" due to the Dutch pronunciation of J as the English 
Y. Quinion and Hanks posit that it was "used as a nickname for a Dutch-speaking 
American in colonial times" and could have grown to include non-Dutch colonists, 
as well.[12] Alternatively, the Dutch given names Jan ("John"; pronounced 
Yan) and Kees ("Cornelius"; pronounced Case) have long been common, and 
the two are sometimes combined into a single name (e.g., Jan Kees de Jager). 
Its Anglicized spelling Yankee could, in this way, have been used to mock 
Dutch Americans. The chosen name Jan Kees may have been partly inspired 
by a dialectal rendition of Jan Kaas ("John Cheese"), the generic nickname 
that Flemish people used for Dutch people.[9] There is also the Dutch jonkheer, 
a term applied to the younger sons of the nobility who bear no title themselves. 
It may be translated as "young gentleman" or "esquire" and is the source 
of the toponym Yonkers; a German cognate is Junker.[original research?] 
An early use of the term outside the United States was in the creation 
of Sam Slick the "Yankee Clockmaker" in a newspaper column in Halifax, 
Nova Scotia, Canada in 1835. The character was a plain-talking American 
who served to poke fun at Nova Scotian customs of that era, while initially 
trying to urge the old-fashioned Canadians to be as clever and hard-working 
as Yankees. The character was developed by Thomas Chandler Haliburton, 
and it grew between 1836 and 1844 in a series of publications.[13] The 
damned Yankee usage dates from 1812.[5] Confederates popularized it as 
a derogatory term for their Northern enemies during and after the American 
Civil War (1861–65). In an old joke, a Southerner alleges, "I was twenty-one 
years old before I learned that 'damn' and 'Yankee' were separate words". 
In fact, the spelling "damnyankee" is not uncommon. It became a catch phrase, 
often used humorously for Yankees visiting the South, as in the mystery 
novel Death of a Damn Yankee: A Laura Fleming Mystery (2001) by Toni Kelner. 
Another popular although facetious saying is that "a Yankee is someone 
from the North who visits the South. A damn Yankee is one who moves here." 
Perhaps the most pervasive influence on the use of the term throughout 
the years has been the song "Yankee Doodle" which was popular during the 
American Revolutionary War (1775–83), as it was broadly adopted by American 
patriots following the battles of Lexington and Concord. The song was popular 
among the British troops, creating a stereotype of the Yankee simpleton 
who stuck a feather in his cap and thought that he was stylish.[14] Today, 
"Yankee Doodle" is the official state song of Connecticut.[15] The term 
Yankee now may mean any resident of New England or of any of the Northeastern 
United States. The original Yankees diffused widely across the northern 
United States, leaving their imprints in New York, the Upper Midwest, and 
places as far away as Seattle, San Francisco, and Honolulu.[16] Yankees 
typically lived in villages consisting of clusters of separate farms. Often 
they were merchants, bankers, teachers, or professionals.[17] Village life 
fostered local democracy, best exemplified by the open town meeting form 
of government which still exists today in New England. Village life also 
stimulated mutual oversight of moral behavior and emphasized civic virtue. 
From the New England seaports of Boston, Salem, Providence, and New London, 
among others, the Yankees built international trade routes, stretching 
to China by 1800. Much of the profit from trading was reinvested in the 
textile and machine tools industries.[18] Yankee ingenuity was a worldwide 
stereotype of inventiveness, technical solutions to practical problems, 
"know-how," self-reliance, and individual enterprise.[19] The stereotype 
first appeared in the 19th century. As Mitchell Wilson notes, "Yankee ingenuity 
and Yankee git-up-and-go did not exist in colonial days."[20] The peculiar 
Yankee became a stock character in standardized comedic venues, especially 
the widely popular humor magazine Yankee Notions, published in New York 
City in the years leading up to the American Civil War. The visceral stereotype 
of the greedy, witch-burning Yankee was developed in the literature of 
the English-speaking world, epitomized in the character of Brother Jonathan. 
Burlesques or comedic performances by Yankee impersonators dominated popular 
theater in the 1800s. The Yankee as an irksome, meddling, and purer-than-thou 
peddler was a theme appearing in American literature written by Washington 
Irving (critical of his character Ichabod Crane), James Fenimore Cooper 
(particularly in his The Chainbearer; Or, The Littlepage Manuscript series), 
and Nathaniel Hawthorne (author of the Scarlet Letter), a copperhead who 
sought more Christian compassion for sinners and violators of civil laws 
and held a strong antipathy toward the Puritans. In defense, the New Englander 
embraced the insulting term "Yankee". The great majority of Yankees gravitated 
toward the burgeoning cities of the American Northeast, while wealthy New 
Englanders also sent ambassadors to frontier communities where they became 
influential bankers and newspaper printers. Using their influence in positive 
ways, they introduced the term "Universal Yankee Nation" to represent and 
proselytize their hopes for national and global influence.[21] In 1939, 
an old Yankee family were featured in the smash Broadway comedy hit Arsenic 
and Old Lace. The play was later adapted as the Hollywood film Arsenic 
and Old Lace (shot in 1941, released in 1944). The play was written by 
Joseph Kesselring, a former music professor at Bethel College, a school 
of the pacifist Mennonite church. The play appeared at a time of strong 
isolationist sentiment regarding European affairs.[22] The play and film 
depict an old Yankee family a decade before they were tagged as WASPs.[23] 
The story line tells how the hero Mortimer Brewster (Cary Grant) makes 
the horrifying discovery that his two beloved maiden aunts are serial murderers 
of homeless old men. The Brewsters are Yankees who trace the family back 
to the Mayflower, and the walls of their genteel Brooklyn home are hung 
with oil portraits of their ancestors. Religion is repeatedly alluded to; 
one of the murdered old men is identified as having been a Baptist, and 
a main character is the daughter of the minister of the Congregational 
church next door, with some scenes taking place in its ancient graveyard. 
The Brewsters have delusions of grandeur. Mortimer's brother lives with 
the two sisters and believes that he is President Theodore Roosevelt. The 
sisters see themselves as philanthropists who help lonely old men. Wearing 
old lace, the two kill old men with wine laced with arsenic. The Brewster 
family is so eminently respectable that the Irish police reject the idea 
that there could be 13 murder victims buried in the basement. In the finale, 
Mortimer Brewster discovers that he was adopted and is not really a Brewster. 
If he is not a member of the Brewster family, he realizes that he will 
not become insane or a murderer. In the film's closing scene, he exclaims, 
"I'm not a Brewster, I'm a son of a sea cook!" as he gleefully takes his 
new bride on their honeymoon. Film critic Matthew Gunter argues in a 2012 
book that the deep theme of the film is a conflict in American history 
between the liberty to do anything (which the Brewsters demand) and what 
Gunter considers America's "bloody hidden past." He notes that the evil 
disfigured nephew was played by Raymond Massey, who was well known at the 
time for his portrayal of Abraham Lincoln, but now portrays a disfigured 
monster. Gunter suggests a link between Lincoln and bloodshed.[24] In the 
21st century, the play is staged at dinner theaters, high schools, and 
colleges. In religion, New England Yankees originally followed the Puritan 
tradition, as expressed in Congregational churches. Beginning in the late 
colonial period, however, many became Presbyterians, Episcopalians, Methodists, 
Baptists, or, later, Unitarians. Strait-laced 17th-century moralism as 
derided by novelist Nathaniel Hawthorne faded in the 18th century. The 
First Great Awakening (under Jonathan Edwards and others) in the mid-18th 
century and the Second Great Awakening in the early 19th century (under 
Charles Grandison Finney, among others) emphasized personal piety, revivals, 
and devotion to civic duty. Theologically, Arminianism replaced the original 
Calvinism. Horace Bushnell introduced the idea of Christian nurture, through 
which children would be brought to religion without revivals. After 1800, 
Yankees spearheaded most reform movements, including those for abolition 
of slavery, temperance in use of alcohol, increase in women's political 
rights, and improvement in women's education. Emma Willard and Mary Lyon 
pioneered in the higher education of women, while Yankees comprised most 
of the reformers who went South during Reconstruction in the late 1860s 
to educate the Freedmen.[25] Historian John Buenker has examined the worldview 
of the Yankee settlers in the Midwest: Because they arrived first and had 
a strong sense of community and mission, Yankees were able to transplant 
New England institutions, values, and mores, altered only by the conditions 
of frontier life. They established a public culture that emphasized the 
work ethic, the sanctity of private property, individual responsibility, 
faith in residential and social mobility, practicality, piety, public order 
and decorum, reverence for public education, activists, honest, and frugal 
government, town meeting democracy, and he believed that there was a public 
interest that transcends particular and stock ambitions. Regarding themselves 
as the elect and just in a world rife with sin and corruption, they felt 
a strong moral obligation to define and enforce standards of community 
and personal behavior…. This pietistic worldview was substantially shared 
by British, Scandinavian, Swiss, English-Canadian and Dutch Reformed immigrants, 
as well as by German Protestants and many of the Forty-Eighters.[26] Yankees 
dominated New England, much of upstate New York, and much of the upper 
Midwest, and were the strongest supporters of the new Republican party 
in the 1860s. This was especially true for the Congregationalists, Presbyterians, 
and (after 1860) the Methodists among them. A study of 65 predominantly 
Yankee counties showed that they voted only 40% for the Whigs in 1848 and 
1852, but became 61–65% Republican in presidential elections of 1856 through 
1864.[27] Ivy League universities remained bastions of old Yankee culture 
until well after World War II, particularly Harvard and Yale, as well as 
"Little Ivy" liberal arts colleges. President Calvin Coolidge was a striking 
example of the modern Yankee stereotype. Coolidge moved from rural Vermont 
to urban Massachusetts and was educated at elite Amherst College. Yet his 
flint-faced, unprepossessing ways and terse rural speech proved politically 
attractive. "That Yankee twang will be worth a hundred thousand votes", 
explained one Republican leader.[28] Coolidge's laconic ways and dry humor 
were characteristic of stereotypical rural "Yankee humor" at the turn of 
the 20th century.[29] The fictional Harvard graduate Thurston Howell III 
of Gilligan's Island typifies the old Yankee elite in a comical way; the 
Boston-born M*A*S*H surgeon character Maj. Charles Emerson Winchester III 
was more satirical, portrayed by David Ogden Stiers. By the beginning of 
the 21st century, systematic Yankee ways had permeated the entire society 
through education. Many observers from the 1880s onward predicted that 
Yankee politicians would be no match for the new generations of ethnic 
politicians, yet the presence of Yankees at the top tier of modern American 
politics was typified by presidents George H. W. Bush and George W. Bush, 
and former Democratic National Committee chairman Howard Dean, as well 
as losing 2004 Democratic presidential nominee John Forbes Kerry, descendant 
through his mother of the Scottish Forbes family, which emigrated to Massachusetts 
in the 1750s. The term Yankee can have many different meanings within the 
United States that are contextually and geographically dependent meanings. 
Traditionally, Yankee was most often used to refer to a New Englander descended 
from the original settlers of the region (thus often suggesting Puritanism 
and thrifty values).[30] By the mid-20th century, some speakers applied 
the word to any American born north of the Mason–Dixon Line, though usually 
with a specific focus still on New England. New England Yankee might be 
used to differentiate.[31] However, within New England itself, the term 
still refers more specifically to old-stock New Englanders of English descent. 
For example: In the southern United States, the term is used in derisive 
reference to any Northerner, especially one who has migrated to the South. 
Senator J. William Fulbright of Arkansas pointed out as late as 1966, "The 
very word 'Yankee' still wakens in Southern minds historical memories of 
defeat and humiliation, of the burning of Atlanta and Sherman's march to 
the sea, or of an ancestral farmhouse burned by Cantrill's raiders".[35] 
Ambrose Bierce defines the term in The Devil's Dictionary as: "n. In Europe, 
an American. In the Northern States of our Union, a New Englander. In the 
Southern States the word is unknown. (See DAMNYANK.)" A humorous aphorism 
attributed to E. B. White summarizes the following distinctions:[citation 
needed] Another variant of the aphorism replaces the last line with: "To 
a Vermonter, a Yankee is somebody who still uses an outhouse". There are 
several other folk and humorous etymologies for the term. Major League 
Baseball's New York Yankees acquired the name from journalists after it 
moved from Baltimore in 1903 (though they were officially known as the 
Highlanders until 1913). The regional sports rivalry between the New York 
Yankees and Boston Red Sox can make the utterance of the term "Yankee" 
unwelcome to some fans in New England, especially to the most dedicated 
Red Sox fans living in the northeastern United States.[36] The term Swamp 
Yankee is sometimes used in rural Rhode Island, Connecticut, and southeastern 
Massachusetts to refer to Protestant farmers of moderate means and their 
descendants (in contrast to richer or urban Yankees); "swamp Yankee" is 
often regarded as a derogatory term.[2] Scholars note that the famous Yankee 
"twang" survives mainly in the hill towns of interior New England, though 
it is disappearing even there.[37] The most characteristic Yankee food 
was pie; Yankee author Harriet Beecher Stowe in her novel Oldtown Folks 
celebrated the social traditions surrounding the Yankee pie. Mark Twain's 
novel A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court popularized the word 
as a nickname for residents of Connecticut. Appropriately, the State of 
Connecticut's Air National Guard unit 103d Airlift Wing is nicknamed "The 
Flying Yankees." A 1950 film about Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. is called 
The Magnificent Yankee. The title of the 1955 musical Damn Yankees refers 
specifically to the New York Yankees baseball team but also echoes the 
older cultural term. Similarly, a book about the ball club echoes the title 
of the Holmes film: The Magnificent Yankees. In Britain,[38] Australia,[39] 
Canada,[40] Ireland,[41] and New Zealand,[42] Yankee, almost universally 
shortened to Yank, is used as a derogatory, pejorative, playful, or colloquial 
term for Americans. Depending on the country, Yankee may be considered 
mildly derogatory.[43] In Cockney rhyming slang a Yank is a Septic or Seppo 
(as in "Septic Tank").[44] Yankee or yanqui (the same word spelled according 
to Spanish orthography) is sometimes associated with anti-Americanism in 
some parts of the world, particularly in Latin American countries and in 
East Asia, and is used in expressions such as "Yankee go home" or "we struggle 
against the yanqui, enemy of mankind" (words from the Sandinista anthem). 
In Spain, however, the term yanqui is simply used to refer to someone from 
the United States, just as it is in the United Kingdom or other English-speaking 
countries, whether colloquially, playfully, or derogatively, with no particular 
emphasis on the derogative use. This is the case of the use of ianque in 
the Portuguese-speaking countries and can also be the case of many countries 
in Spanish-speaking Latin America. Venezuelan Spanish has the word pitiyanqui, 
derived c. 1940 around the oil industry from petty yankee or petit yanqui,[45] 
a derogatory term for those who profess an exaggerated and often ridiculous 
admiration for anything from the United States. In the late 19th century, 
the Japanese were called "the Yankees of the East" in praise of their industriousness 
and drive to modernization.[46] In Japan since the late 1970s, the term 
Yankī has been used to refer to a type of delinquent youth.[47] During 
the Philippine–American War, Filipinos referred to Americans as "yanquis". 
In Finland, the word jenkki (yank) is sometimes used to refer to any U.S. 
citizen, and with the same group of people Jenkkilä (Yankeeland) refers 
to the United States itself. It is not considered offensive or anti-U.S., 
but rather a colloquial expression.[48] However, more commonly a U.S. citizen 
is called amerikkalainen ("American") or yhdysvaltalainen ("United Statesian") 
and the country itself Amerikka or Yhdysvallat. Jenkki is the most popular 
brand of chewing gum in Finland, introduced in 1951 by a Finnish company 
but marketed with American pop culture imagery.[49][50] The variant Yankee 
Air Pirate was used during the Vietnam War in North Vietnamese propaganda 
to refer to the United States Air Force. In Iceland, the word kani is used 
for Yankee or Yank in the mildly derogatory sense. When referring to residents 
of the United States, norðurríkjamaður is use, or more commonly bandaríkjamaður. 
In Polish, the word jankes can refer to any U.S. citizen, has little pejorative 
connotation if at all, and its use is somewhat obscure (it is mainly used 
to translate the English word Yankee in a less formal context, such as 
in Civil War movies). In Sweden, the word is translated to jänkare. The 
word is not itself a negative expression, though it can of course be used 
as such depending on context. When a Swedish person uses the word jänkare, 
it usually refers to cars from the United States, but could also be used 
as a slang term for any U.S. citizen. In Hungarian, the word "jenki" (pronounced 
like "Yenkie") is a slang term to Americans in general (or white American 
individuals) and carries no pejorative connotation. In India, an ice cream 
chain with the name Yankee Doodle was popular during the 1980s. In Indonesia, 
the term Jengki style (local spelling of "Yankee") is a term for post-war 
Modernist houses popular there. It is so called because of its heavy influence 
from the American Mid-century modern architecture. Joshua Slocum refers 
in his 1899 book Sailing Alone Around the World to Nova Scotians as being 
the only true Yankees. It thus may be inferred, as he himself was a Nova 
Scotian, that he had pride in his ancestry. Yankee, in this instance, is 
a form of praise instead of connoting a form of derision, perhaps referring 
to the hardy seagoing people of the East Coast at that time. Yankee is 
the code word for the letter "Y" in the NATO phonetic alphabet. In the 
