Yankeeography is a biography-style television program that chronicles the 
lives and careers of the players, coaches, and other notable personnel 
associated with the New York Yankees Major League Baseball team. The series 
is aired on the YES Network and is produced by MLB Productions [1]. The 
series is hosted by Yankees radio personality John Sterling. The series 
has earned five New York Sports Emmy Awards since its inception. In addition 
to airing on YES, MLB Productions has packaged many of the shows into DVD 
boxed sets. After debuting as a weekly show with the 2002 launch of YES, 
Yankeeography only debuts new episodes periodically (as there are fewer 
prominent Yankees yet to be spotlighted). For instance, four episodes premiered 
in 2006: Tino Martinez, David Cone, the Yankees' 1996 World Series team, 
and Billy Martin. All Yankees with retired numbers have had shows completed 
with the exception of Bill Dickey. The show has been criticized for producing 
episodes on players who remain active while Hall of Famers from much earlier 
eras such as Jack Chesbro, Tony Lazzeri, Red Ruffing and Lefty Gomez were 
not profiled. Some profiles have been updated to reflect new developments. 
This two disc collection contains the six parts of The History of the Yankees, 
entitled: "1903-1956", "1957-1978", "1979-2002", "Moments and Mystique", 
"The Stadium", and "The Greatest Yankees Teams" Volume 1 contains six episodes 
on Babe Ruth, Thurman Munson, Ron Guidry, Don Mattingly, Derek Jeter, and 
Joe Torre. A third disc includes various extras such as unforgettable moments 
and archived footage. Volume 2 contains six episodes on Lou Gehrig, Phil 
Rizzuto, Mickey Mantle, Elston Howard, Paul O'Neill, and Mariano Rivera. 
A third disc includes various extras such as unforgettable moments and 
archived footage. Volume 3 contains six episodes on Joe DiMaggio, Catfish 
Hunter, Bobby Murcer, Reggie Jackson, Goose Gossage, and Jorge Posada. 
A third disc includes various extras such as unforgettable moments and 
archived footage. Volume 4 contains six episodes on Yogi Berra, Whitey 
Ford, Roger Maris, Lou Piniella, Willie Randolph, and Bernie Williams. 
A third disc includes various extras such as unforgettable moments and 
archived footage. The Megaset is a 12 DVD set with 34 episodes of Yankeeography, 
including 10 previously unreleased episodes (Billy Martin, Casey Stengel, 
Sparky Lyle, Graig Nettles, David Cone, Tino Martinez, Roger Clemens, The 
Hall of Famers, The Left Handers, The Right Handers) Set 1 contains 11 
episodes: Babe Ruth, Lou Gehrig, Joe DiMaggio, Phil Rizzuto, Yogi Berra, 
Mickey Mantle, Whitey Ford, Billy Martin, Casey Stengel, Elston Howard, 
and Roger Maris. Set 2 contains 12 episodes: Thurman Munson, Bobby Murcer, 
Sparky Lyle, Graig Nettles, Lou Piniella, Catfish Hunter, Ron Guidry, Willie 
Randolph, Reggie Jackson, Goose Gossage, Don Mattingly, and Bernie Williams. 
Set 3 contains 11 episodes: Paul O'Neill, David Cone, Derek Jeter, Mariano 
Rivera, Jorge Posada, Joe Torre, Tino Martinez, Roger Clemens, The Hall 
of Famers, The Left Handers, and The Right Handers. Set 4 contains extra 
features such as archived footage and interviews about all players included 
on previous discs. Released in August 2009, this is a 2-DVD collection 
which contains episodes about prominent Yankee captains: Lou Gehrig, Thurman 
Munson, Graig Nettles, Ron Guidry, Willie Randolph, Don Mattingly, and 
Derek Jeter. The set also contains bonus material and episode Moments & 
Mystique from the 100 Years of the New York Yankees collection. Released 
in November 2010, this 2-DVD collections contains episodes about the core 
players of the 1995-2010 era: Derek Jeter, Mariano Rivera, Jorge Posada, 
and Andy Pettitte, as well as extras. Released in November 2011,16DVD set,32-page 
Collectible Book. Disc 1:Yankee Stadium Disc 2:Babe Ruth,Lou Gehrig,Joe 
DiMaggio,Phil Rizzuto. Disc 3:Yogi Berra,Billy Martin,Whitey Ford,Mickey 
Mantle. Disc 4:Casey Stengel,Elston Howard,Roger Maris. Disc 5:Bonus:Babe 
Ruth,Lou Gehrig,Joe DiMaggio,Phil Rizzuto,Yogi Berra,Billy Martin,Whitey 
Ford,Mickey Mantle,Casey Stengel,Elston Howard,Roger Maris. Disc 6:Bobby 
Murcer,Thurman Munson,Sparky Lyle, Graig Nettles. Disc 7:Lou Piniella,Catfish 
Hunter,Ron Guidry,Willie Randolph. Disc 8:Reggie Jackson,Goose Gossage,Dave 
Winfield,Don Mattingly. Disc 9:Bonus:Bobby Murcer,Thurman Munson,Sparky 
Lyle, Graig Nettles,Lou Piniella,Catfish Hunter,Ron Guidry,Willie Randolph,Reggie 
Jackson,Goose Gossage,Dave Winfield,Don Mattingly. Disc 10:Bernie Williams,Paul 
O'Neill,Andy Pettitte,Mariano Rivera. Disc 11:Derek Jeter,David Cone,Jorge 
Posada,Tino Martinez. Disc 12:Bonus:Bernie Williams,Paul O'Neill,Andy Pettitte,Mariano 
Rivera,Derek Jeter,David Cone,Jorge Posada,Tino Martinez. Disc 13:Joe Torre,Roger 
Clemens,Mike Mussina,Hideki Matsui. Disc 14:Alex Rodriguez,George Steinbrenner. 
Bonus:Joe Torre,Roger Clemens,Mike Mussina,Hideki Matsui,Alex Rodriguez,George 
Steinbrenner. Disc 15:1996 Season In Review,1998 Season In Review. Disc 
16:Tales Of Triumph:1996 World Series,1998 World Series,2001 World Series 
Game4&5,1978 Playoff:Bucky Dent,No-Hitters & Perfect Games,2003 ALCS:Aaron 
