The Yankees Entertainment and Sports Network (YES) is an American cable 
and satellite television regional sports network that is owned by 21st 
Century Fox (which owns a controlling 80% interest and serves as managing 
partner) and Yankee Global Enterprises (which owns the remaining 20%). 
Primarily serving New York City, New York and the surrounding metropolitan 
area, it broadcasts a variety of sports events, as well as magazine, documentary 
and discussion programs; however, its main emphasis is focused on games 
and team-related programs involving the New York Yankees of Major League 
Baseball (owned by minority partner Yankee Global), the NBA's Brooklyn 
Nets and New York City FC of Major League Soccer.[1] YES Network's offices 
are based at the Chrysler Building in Midtown Manhattan. YES programs, 
including Yankees and Nets pre- and post-game shows, are produced in studios 
that are located in Stamford, Connecticut.[2] The channel is available 
on cable and IPTV providers in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and parts 
of Pennsylvania; it is available nationally on some cable systems (as part 
of a designated sports tier), via satellite on DirecTV, and regionally 
on Frontier U-verse and Verizon FiOS and Cox Communications. YES is the 
product of a holding company founded in 1999 called YankeeNets, created 
out a merger of the business operations of the Yankees and the then-New 
Jersey Nets. One of the reasons behind the operational merger was to allow 
both teams to gain better leverage over their own broadcast rights; each 
party believed that it would obtain better individual deals, if they negotiated 
the rights collectively. Two years earlier in 1997, Cablevision – which 
at the time had owned the Nets' television broadcaster, SportsChannel New 
York (later known as Fox Sports Net New York, and now known as MSG Plus) 
– became the sole owner to the television rights of all seven Major League 
Baseball, NBA and NHL teams in the New York City market when it acquired 
the competing MSG Network (previously owned by Viacom through its 1994 
purchase of the network's former parent Paramount Communications), which 
had held the broadcast rights to the Yankees since 1989. This led to monopoly-like 
tactics, including the shift of some games to the cable-exclusive MSG Metro 
Channels, which had very limited distribution as Cablevision, Comcast and 
Time Warner Cable routinely fought over carriage agreements. Cablevision 
attempted to buy the Yankees outright, but could not agree to acceptable 
terms with George Steinbrenner and his partners. YankeeNets discussed multiple 
options with potential partners to either stay with Cablevision or start 
its own network. The ultimate decision was to start its own network, ending 
the five-year monopoly that Cablevision had held on local New York sports. 
The Yankees' success in the late 1990s was a key factor in the decision, 
as it had become a much more valuable brand than ever before. YES launched 
on March 19, 2002, under the ownership of YankeeNets and Goldman Sachs, 
the latter of which served as minority partner. At that time, the network's 
current website domain, YesNetwork.com, was registered by a seminar training 
company called the "Yes! Network." As a result, the YES cable channel temporarily 
used the domain "yesnetworktv.com" for its website,[3] before negotiating 
a deal with the Yes! Network (which reassigned its domain to YesMidwest.com) 
to purchase the YesNetwork.com domain. In late 2003, the Yankees and Nets 
decided to part ways, with the Nets being sold to a group led by real estate 
developer Bruce Ratner. The sale did not include the Nets' ownership stake 
in YES (NJ Holdings), which remained with the pre-merger owners of the 
team. As part of the sale, the Nets signed a long-term deal to keep the 
team's game telecasts on YES. In 2004, YankeeNets was renamed Yankee Global 
Enterprises LLC, which owns the Yankees and YES as separate companies. 
Therefore, the Yankees technically do not own YES. The Yankees, however, 
receive a rights fee from YES that is somewhat higher than MSG previously 
paid. In early 2006, the design and maintenance of YesNetwork.com was taken 
over by Major League Baseball Advanced Media (MLBAM), the interactive unit 
of Major League Baseball which has operated the websites of other team-owned 
regional sports networks including the Mets' SportsNet New York, and (while 
that network was under the ownership of the Cleveland Indians) SportsTime 
Ohio. As a result, YES gained the streaming rights to carry a limited amount 
of game highlights on its website, in addition to post-game interviews. 
In 2007, Goldman Sachs' share in the network was put up for sale for estate 
taxes reasons.[4] In November 2012, News Corporation agreed to terms on 
acquiring a 49% stake in YES. As a consequence, each of the network's previous 
owners had their ownership stakes reduced. News Corporation's interest 
in YES was transferred to 21st Century Fox (owned by Rupert Murdoch, who 
also remained the owner of News Corporation), when the former company spun 
off its U.S. entertainment holdings into a separate company in July 2013. 
In September 2013, YES began carrying national programming primarily intended 
for distribution to the Fox Sports regional networks, assuming the regional 
television rights to those programs from MSG Plus. On January 25, 2014, 
21st Century Fox became the network's majority owner by purchasing an additional 
31% share of YES Network, increasing the company's ownership interest from 
49% to 80%.[5] In 2014, the YES Network announced an average 223,000 households 
in Yankees game broadcasts.[6] In addition to live coverage of Yankees 
and Nets games, their respective pre-game and post-game shows and (as circumstances 
warrant) live press conferences, YES has produced various original programs, 
some of which have won local New York Emmy Awards. Other original programming 
featured on YES includes: Since the network's debut, YES has aired select 
telecasts of the Yankees' minor league farm teams, primarily the Class-A 
(short season) Staten Island Yankees of the New York–Penn League. Those 
games are produced by YES, utilizing the same graphics and announcers as 
seen during game telecasts of the major league Yankees. From 2002 to 2006, 
YES also broadcast games from the Yankees' former Class-AAA team, the Columbus 
Clippers of the International League. Those games were produced locally 
in Columbus, Ohio. After the 2006 season, the Yankees ended their affiliation 
with the Clippers, and became affiliated with the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre 
Railriders (formerly the Yankees and Red Barons). YES has only televised 
one Railriders game, Masahiro Tanaka's minor league rehab start, the team 
also has local coverage within its Scranton/Wilkes-Barre market. The network 
has also broadcast various college sports events including football and 
basketball games from the Ivy League, basketball games from the Big 12 
Conference (through ESPN Plus) and rebroadcasts of Notre Dame Fighting 
Irish football games. It also carries the coaches' shows of Notre Dame 
and the Penn State Nittany Lions. In 2011, YES began airing live broadcasts 
of college basketball games involving the Fordham University. As part of 
the formation of its programming deal with Fox Sports Networks, in September 
2013, YES began broadcasting select FSN-produced college sports events 
intended for national broadcast on its regional sports networks, including 
football and basketball games from the Atlantic Coast Conference. In 2000, 
YankeeNets entered into a marketing agreement with the New York Giants; 
this included awarding YES the exclusive rights to the NFL franchise's 
magazine programs (including Giants Online and Giants on Deck, which continued 
to air on the network after the YankeeNets breakup). The Giants' relationship 
with YES Network ended in 2007, at which time its team-related programming 
moved to Fox owned-and-operated station WNYW (channel 5) and MyNetworkTV 
owned-and-operated station WWOR-TV (channel 9), a duopoly owned by Fox 
Television Stations (whose sister company, the Fox network, owns broadcast 
rights to most games from the Giants home conference, the National Football 
Conference).[7] YankeeNets also maintained a similar relationship with 
English football club Manchester United. YES broadcast tape-delayed and 
classic United games produced by the team-owned Manchester United TV in 
the network's earlier days. The YES Network also produces Yankees game 
broadcasts shown over-the-air on WPIX-TV, using the same on-air talent 
seen on the cable network. From 2002 to 2004, WCBS-TV (channel 2) carried 
the Yankees broadcasts, while WLNY-TV (channel 55) held the local broadcast 
television rights to the Nets. The Yankees package is also simulcast on 
other television stations in the team's designated market region. YES also 
offers a Spanish-language feed of all of its Yankees game telecasts through 
the second audio program incorporated into most television sets, and cable 
and satellite converter boxes; this feed can also be heard on New York 
radio station WNSW ( AM), which holds the contract to carry the Yankees' 
Spanish-language broadcasts. The network attempted to secure television 
rights to the New Jersey Devils, formerly owned by an affiliate of YankeeNets; 
after the team was sold to a different ownership group, the Devils opted 
to renew their contract with MSG Network and FSN New York in 2005, under 
a long-term agreement. YES broadcasts NBA TV's daily news and fantasy basketball 
shows (usually in the form of rebroadcasts, but occasionally showing live 
telecasts in the early morning drive time hours) and The Marv Albert Show. 
For a couple of years during the early 2000s, YES and NBA TV also both 
aired reruns of the basketball-centered drama series The White Shadow. 
The network also previously aired This Week in Baseball during the week 
throughout the Major League Baseball regular season, following each episode's 
original Saturday broadcast on Fox. As part of a multi-year agreement with 
MP & Silva, YES aired tape delayed broadcasts of Premier League, FA Cup 
and UEFA Champions League matches involving Arsenal F.C.. In addition to 
airing Arsenal matches, the network aired select archived match telecasts, 
as well as the team's magazine shows, Arsenal World and Arsenal 360. This 
agreement ended at the start of the 2012–13 Premier League season. Arsenal 
would get picked up by ONE World Sports while YES would gain partnership 
with Manchester City FC. In December 2014, YES announced it had acquired 
local broadcast rights to New York City FC of Major League Soccer, a subsidiary 
of Manchester City FC; Yankee Global Enterprises owns a 20% minority stake 
in the club, which is majority-owned by City Football Group.[8][9] Since 
the network's launch in 2002, longtime Yankee Stadium public address announcer 
Bob Sheppard has served as a continuity announcer for YES' network identifications 
and programming schedules. Marv Albert also sometimes provides continuity 
for on-air promotions. YES2 is a gametime-only overflow feed of YES Network, 
which broadcasts select Nets games on rare occasions when the Nets and 
Yankees are scheduled to play at the same time. The feed is carried in 
both standard and high definition on most cable providers in the New York 
metropolitan area and nationwide on DirecTV. YES Network HD is a 1080i 
high definition simulcast feed of the network, which is carried on select 
cable providers (including Time Warner Cable, Comcast, Cablevision, DirecTV, 
RCN and Verizon FiOS). As of 2015[update], YES is currently one of only 
three networks owned by YES majority owner 21st Century Fox (alongside 
regional sports networks Fox Sports Ohio and SportsTime Ohio) that transmit 
their HD simulcasts in 1080i, rather than the company's preferred 720p 
format. When it launched in mid-July 2004, YES HD initially only televised 
all Yankees home games, as well as away games involving the New York Mets 
and Boston Red Sox, in high definition. In 2005, YES began televising all 
Yankees games played east of the Mississippi River in high definition, 
with the network's HD telecasts expanding to encompass virtually all of 
the Yankees and Nets games in 2006. In addition to game telecasts, the 
network now also broadcasts all of its studio shows in HD. All YES-produced 
Yankees and Nets game telecasts aired on WWOR-TV began broadcasting in 
HD in September 2006; however while the HD feed of the games is available 
to these outlets, the HD telecasts were not necessarily distributed to 
television stations outside of the New York City area that simulcast WWOR's 
game broadcasts. In April 2007, YES converted the aspect ratio of its primary 
standard definition feed from full-screen to a letterboxed 4:3 format, 
which is a downconversion from the 16:9 high definition feed. The network's 
use of the AFD #10 broadcast flag to transmit its HD feed in this manner 
for broadcast in SD predates its use by other national cable networks such 
as Fox News Channel, ESPN and CNN. YES Network borrowed time on Cablevision's 
"iO TV 1300" service and on DirecTV to carry the first baseball game ever 
transmitted in 3D on July 10 and 11, 2010, when the Yankees faced the Seattle 
Mariners; the 3D telecast of the game was also distributed to other cable 
providers. YES Network maintains a national feed available to select cable 
providers outside of the New York City market – including Time Warner Cable, 
Verizon FiOS (in certain markets) and Bright House Networks[10] (on its 
systems in Tampa and Orlando). The feed does not include the network's 
live game telecasts (with alternate programming airing in their place), 
however it does carry the pre-game and post-game shows that bookend Yankees 
and Nets games aired by YES within the market. This feed differs from the 
satellite feed of the network available on DirecTV, in which Yankees and/or 
Nets games can be viewed outside of the teams' markets through a subscription 
to MLB Extra Innings and/or NBA League Pass. The original graphics package 
used for the network's game telecasts consisted of a blue diamond, outlined 
in white in the upper left-handed corner of the screen. Red arrows, outlined 
in white, were placed around the diamond to indicate baserunners positioned 
at their respective bases. The team's initials were placed in a box next 
to their amount of runs scored in the center of the diamond. The inning 
was placed above the score while the amount of outs and current pitch count 
were placed below the score. The YES logo was placed at the bottom of the 
diamond, disappearing temporarily after incoming pitch speeds. For the 
2005 season, the on-screen scoreboard was modified slightly to remove the 
white outline around the blue diamond, which was given a darker more royal-blue 
shading; the arrows signifying the baserunners were now rendered in bright 
yellow. The team initials remained in the middle of the score bug, now 
only in silver boxes with the respective amount of runs scored placed directly 
to the right in white-on-black backgrounds. The pitch count and number 
of outs became rendered in white on a black background. A small red capsule 
was incorporated as well, appearing next to the team currently at bat. 
In addition to being removed when the speed of a pitch was indicated, the 
YES logo at the bottom of the bug was replaced with a yellow rectangle 
with the banner title "HOME RUN" in bold capital letters whenever a home 
run was scored. The network's score bug received a dramatic overhaul beginning 
with the 2006 Spring training period. The left-corner diamond design was 
replaced with a thin horizontal white-on-chrome banner placed across the 
top third of the screen. At far left, the banner featured a diamond indicating 
the runners at each base, which were outlined in blue and would feature 
a yellow glowing effect whenever a runner was positioned on that specific 
base. The game scores appeared to the right, with team initials placed 
in black boxes encased in a large rectangle featuring the team's colors. 
while number of runs scored by the respective team were displayed in black 
on a white background. The inning, number of outs and pitch count, in left 
to right order, were placed in small black rectangles. The YES logo, at 
far right, would slide to rightwards to display the most recent pitch speed. 
After each pitch, or after an out or run was scored, the appropriate box 
would flash blue to the appropriate statistic. After a home run was hit, 
the diamond would turn blue and display the abbreviation "HR" in the center. 
The only subtle to change to the score banner occurred in the 2007 season, 
as the bases within the diamond were now rendered in black; after a home 
run was scored, the diamond would turn black before displaying the "HR" 
abbreviation. The network adopted a new graphics package in April 2010, 
on Opening Day of the 2010 Yankees season. The scoreboard graphic reverted 
to a bug encompassing only the top left portion of the screen. The team 
names (in their respective colors) and their corresponding score were now 
overlaid on white-to-black shaded bar, with the base diamond placed at 
far right. The inning count, outs, and pitching count (balls and strikes) 
was placed in a black graphical bar under the main banner; while the current 
pitcher's pitch count (in black text over a white background) was placed 
separately to the right. The latter area also is used to show the last 
pitch speed (displayed in black-over-yellow) for a few moments after each 
pitch. When a home run is hit, a "HOME RUN" text message along with the 
player's name scrolls to the left on a background corresponding to the 
respective team's colors, under which the player's home run count for the 
season (for example, "7th HR of the season") is denoted. Brooklyn Nets 
broadcasts use a variation of this package, with the YES logo rendered 
in black. Prior to the Nets' relocation from New Jersey to Brooklyn in 
2012, the YES logo was displayed in red. At its launch, YES became embroiled 
in a carriage dispute with Cablevision (which attempted to purchase the 
Yankees in 1998 and carried the team's games on MSG Network at the time 
of the channel's launch), leaving the Yankees' game telecasts not available 
to the provider's game telecasts for an entire year; this led the New York 
state government to intervene and serve as negotiator for a temporary carriage 
agreement between YES and Cablevision. In 2004, the two sides eventually 
signed a long-term contract to carry the network on Cablevision's New York 
area systems. This situation was very similar to another lengthy dispute 
that Cablevision entered into with MSG Network, after that network assumed 
the regional cable television rights to the Yankees in 1989 from Cablevision-owned 
SportsChannel New York. Dish Network remains[when?] the only pay television 
provider available in the New York City area that does not carry YES Network. 
The satellite provider has indicated that it would not offer the network 
unless it negotiates a lower per-channel subscriber fee due to concerns 
that the rates the network offered could force the provider to increase 
the pricing of its programming packages.[11] YES, however, has a most favored 
nation clause with all of its cable and satellite providers, in which all 
of the network's other carriage agreements would be voided if it lowered 
its subscriber rate for a single provider. Former YES minority owner Goldman 
Sachs also maintains an ownership stake in Dish Network parent Echostar. 
Time Warner Cable relocated YES from channel 30 to channel 53 on its New 
York City area systems in March 2008, soon after the New York City Council 
approved a measure to provide the Yankees public funding to build a new 
stadium. Simultaneously, Time Warner Cable moved business news channel 
Bloomberg Television to YES' former channel 30 slot, all while renegotiating 
its ten-year contract with Mayor Michael Bloomberg (owner of Bloomberg 
Television parent Bloomberg L.P.) and the city of New York.[12] In 2016, 
Comcast (who are part owners of Sportsnet New York) dropped the YES Network. 
[13] In 2003, Don Zimmer (then employed with the Yankees as a bench coach) 
expressed criticism of team owner George Steinbrenner in interviews with 
certain local media outlets. After this came to light, it was later rumored 
that, in response, Steinbrenner ordered YES not to show Zimmer on-camera 
during its Yankee telecasts. In April 2005, YES declined to broadcast pre-game 
Opening Day festivities celebrating the Boston Red Sox' 2004 World Series 
championship win prior to its telecast of a Red Sox home game against the 
Yankees at Fenway Park. YES was roundly criticized for this move, including 
its decision to use a fixed camera shot focused tightly on correspondent 
Kimberly Jones as she described the events surrounding her in general terms. 
Yankees players not only witnessed the ceremonies, but graciously applauded 
them from the top steps of their dugout.[14] Perhaps due to this incident, 
YES broadcast the majority of the ceremonies honoring the Red Sox' celebration 
of the 100th Anniversary of Fenway Park in 2012. During the 2005 season, 
New York City area newspapers reported that the post-game questions asked 
to Yankees manager Joe Torre by Kimberly Jones were being sent to her by 
top-level team executives (quite possibly on directives from George Steinbrenner), 
and that Torre did not feel comfortable answering them. For the 2006 and 
2007 seasons, Torre, who had been paid a fee by YES to give exclusive interviews 
after each Yankees game, ended his agreement with the network. YES now 
sends its reporter to the regular pre-game and post-game media sessions 
