As player As manager As coach Lawrence Peter "Yogi" Berra (May 12, 1925 – 
September 22, 2015) was an American professional baseball catcher, manager, 
and coach who played 19 seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB) (1946–63, 
1965) (all but the last for the New York Yankees). He was an 18-time All-Star 
and 10-time World Series champion as a player. Berra had a career batting 
average of .285, while compiling 358 home runs and 1,430 runs batted in. 
He is one of only five players to win the American League Most Valuable 
Player Award three times. He is widely regarded as one of the greatest 
catchers in baseball history,[1] and was elected to the Baseball Hall of 
Fame in 1972. Berra was a native of St. Louis, and signed with the Yankees 
in 1943 before serving in the U.S. Navy in World War II. He made his major-league 
debut at age 21 in 1946 and was a mainstay in the Yankees' lineup during 
the team's championship years beginning in 1949 and continuing thru 1962. 
Despite his short stature (he was 5' 7 in height), Berra was a power hitter 
and strong defensive catcher. He caught Don Larsen's perfect game in Game 
5 of the 1956 World Series. After playing 18 seasons with the Yankees, 
Berra retired following the 1963 season. He spent the next season as their 
manager, then joined the New York Mets in 1965 as coach (and briefly a 
player again). Berra remained with the Mets for the next decade, serving 
the last four years as their manager. He returned to the Yankees in 1976, 
coaching them for eight seasons and managing for two, before coaching the 
Houston Astros. He was one of seven managers to lead both American and 
National League teams to the World Series. He appeared in 21 World Series 
as a player, coach, or manager and won 13 of them. The Yankees retired 
his uniform number 8 in 1972; in an unusual twist, Bill Dickey also wore 
number 8, and both catchers had this number retired by the Yankees. The 
club honored him with a plaque in Monument Park in 1988. Berra was named 
to the MLB All-Century Team in a vote by fans in 1999. For the remainder 
of his life, he was closely involved with the Yogi Berra Museum and Learning 
Center, which he opened on the campus of Montclair State University in 
1998. Berra quit school after the eighth grade.[2] He was known for his 
malapropisms as well as pithy and paradoxical statements, such as "It ain't 
over 'til it's over", while speaking to reporters. He once simultaneously 
denied and confirmed his reputation by stating, "I really didn't say everything 
I said."[1][3] Yogi Berra was born Lorenzo Pietro Berra in a primarily 
Italian neighborhood of St. Louis called "The Hill" to Italian immigrants 
Pietro and Paolina (née Longoni) Berra. Pietro was originally from Malvaglio 
near Milan in northern Italy; he arrived at Ellis Island on October 18, 
1909 at the age of 23.[4][5] In a 2005 interview for the Baseball Hall 
of Fame, Yogi said, "My father came over first. He came from the old country. 
And he didn't know what baseball was. He was ready to go to work. And then 
I had three other brothers and a sister. My brother and my mother came 
over later on. My two oldest brothers, they were born there—Mike and Tony. 
John and I and my sister Josie were born in St. Louis."[6] Berra's parents 
originally gave him the nickname "Lawdie", which was derived from his mother's 
difficulty pronouncing "Lawrence" or "Larry" correctly. He grew up on Elizabeth 
Avenue, across the street from boyhood friend and later competitor Joe 
Garagiola. That block was also home to Jack Buck early in his Cardinals 
broadcasting career, and it was later renamed "Hall of Fame Place".[7] 
Berra was a Roman Catholic,[8] and he attended South Side Catholic, now 
called St. Mary's High School, in south St. Louis with Garagiola. Berra 
has been inducted into the St. Louis Walk of Fame.[9] He began playing 
baseball in local American Legion leagues where he learned the basics of 
catching while playing outfield and infield positions, as well. He also 
played for a Cranston, Rhode Island team under an assumed name.[10] While 
playing in American Legion baseball, he received his famous nickname from 
his friend Jack Maguire, who said that he resembled a Hindu yogi whenever 
he sat around with arms and legs crossed waiting to bat or while looking 
sad after a losing game.[11] In 1942, the St. Louis Cardinals overlooked 
Berra in favor of his boyhood best friend, Joe Garagiola. On the surface, 
the Cardinals seemed to think that Garagiola was the superior prospect, 
but team president Branch Rickey actually had an ulterior motive: Knowing 
he was soon to leave St. Louis to take over the operation of the Brooklyn 
Dodgers and more impressed with Berra than he let on, Rickey apparently 
planned to hold Berra off until he could sign him for the Dodgers.[12] 
However, the Yankees signed Berra for the same $500 bonus the Cardinals 
offered Garagiola before Rickey could sign Berra to the Dodgers. During 
World War II, Berra served in the U.S. Navy as a gunner's mate on the attack 
transport USS Bayfield during the D-Day invasion of France.[13] A Second 
Class Seaman, Berra was one of a six-man crew on a Navy rocket boat, firing 
machine guns and launching rockets at the German defenses at Omaha Beach. 
He was fired upon, but was not hit, and later received several commendations 
for his bravery. During an interview on the 65th Anniversary of D-Day, 
Yogi confirmed that he was sent to Utah Beach during the D-Day invasion 
as well.[14][15] Following his military service, Berra played minor-league 
baseball with the Newark Bears, surprising the team's manager with his 
talent despite his short stature.[16] He was mentored by Hall of Famer 
Bill Dickey, whose uniform number Berra took. He later said, "I owe everything 
I did in baseball to Bill Dickey."[17] Berra was called up to the Yankees 
and played his first game on September 22, 1946, and he played 7 games 
that season and 83 games in 1947. He played in more than a hundred games 
in each of the following fourteen years. Berra appeared in fourteen World 
Series, including 10 World Series championships, both of which are records. 
In part because Berra's playing career coincided with the Yankees' most 
consistent period of World Series participation, he established Series 
records for the most games (75), at bats (259), hits (71), doubles (10), 
singles (49), games caught (63), and catcher putouts (457). In Game 3 of 
the 1947 World Series, Berra hit the first pinch-hit home run in World 
Series history,[18] off Brooklyn Dodgers pitcher Ralph Branca (who later 
gave up Bobby Thomson's famous Shot Heard 'Round the World in 1951).[19][20] 
Berra was an All-Star for 15 seasons,[1] and was selected to 18 All-Star 
Games (MLB held two All-Star Games in 1959 through 1962[21]).[22] He won 
the American League (AL) MVP award in 1951, 1954, and 1955; Berra never 
finished lower than fourth in the MVP voting from 1950 to 1957.[18] He 
received MVP votes in fifteen consecutive seasons, tied with Barry Bonds 
and second only to Hank Aaron's nineteen straight seasons with MVP support.[23] 
From 1949 to 1955, on a team filled with stars such as Mickey Mantle and 
Joe DiMaggio, it was Berra who led the Yankees in RBI for seven consecutive 
seasons.[24] One of the most notable games of Berra's playing career came 
when he caught Don Larsen's perfect game in the 1956 World Series, the 
first of only two no-hitters ever thrown in MLB postseason play.[25] The 
picture of Berra leaping into Larsen's arms following Dale Mitchell's called 
third strike to end the game is one of the sport's most memorable images.[26] 
Berra was excellent at hitting bad pitches, covering all areas of the strike 
zone (as well as beyond) with great extension. In addition to this wide 
plate coverage, he also had great bat control. He was able both to swing 
the bat like a golf club to hit low pitches for deep home runs and to chop 
at high pitches for line drives. Whether changing speeds or location, pitcher 
Early Wynn soon discovered that "Berra moves right with you."[27] Five 
times, Berra had more home runs than strikeouts in a season, striking out 
just twelve times in 597 at-bats in 1950. The combination of bat control 
and plate coverage made Berra a feared "clutch hitter", proclaimed by rival 
manager Paul Richards "the toughest man in the league in the last three 
innings". Contrasting him with teammate Mickey Mantle, Wynn declared Berra 
"the real toughest clutch hitter", grouping him with Cleveland slugger 
Al Rosen as "the two best clutch hitters in the game".[27] As a catcher 
Berra was outstanding: quick, mobile, and a great handler of pitchers, 
Berra led all American League catchers eight times in games caught and 
in chances accepted, six times in double plays (a major-league record), 
eight times in putouts, three times in assists, and once in fielding percentage. 
Berra left the game with the AL records for catcher putouts (8,723) and 
chances accepted (9,520). He was also one of only four catchers ever to 
field 1.000 in a season, playing 88 errorless games in 1958. He was the 
first catcher to leave one finger outside his glove, a style that most 
other catchers eventually emulated.[28] In June 1962, at the age of 37, 
Berra showed his superb physical endurance by catching an entire 22-inning, 
seven-hour game against the Detroit Tigers.[29] Casey Stengel, Berra's 
manager during most of his playing career with the Yankees and with the 
Mets in 1965, once said, "I never play a game without my man".[30] According 
to the Win Shares formula developed by sabermetrician Bill James, Berra 
is the greatest catcher of all time and the 52nd-greatest non-pitching 
player in major-league history. Berra caught a record 173 shutouts during 
his career, ranking him first in this category all-time among major league 
catchers.[31] Later in his career, Berra became a good defensive outfielder 
in Yankee Stadium's notoriously difficult left field.[32] Berra retired 
as an active player after the 1963 World Series, and was immediately named 
to succeed Ralph Houk as manager of the Yankees. An unforgettable incident 
occurred on board the team bus in August 1964. Following a loss, infielder 
Phil Linz was playing his harmonica, and Berra ordered him to stop. Seated 
on the other end of the bus, Linz could not hear what Berra had said, and 
Mickey Mantle impishly informed Linz, "He said to play it louder." When 
Linz did so, an angry Berra slapped the harmonica out of his hands.[33] 
All was apparently forgotten when the Yankees rode a September surge to 
return to the World Series, but the team lost to the St. Louis Cardinals 
in seven games, after which Berra was fired. Houk, who was general manager 
at the time, later said the decision to fire Berra was made in late August 
and that the incident with Linz had nothing to do with it. Although he 
didn't elaborate, Houk said that he and the rest of the Yankee brain trust 
did not feel Berra was ready to manage.[34] Players, however, said the 
incident actually solidified his managerial authority and helped him lead 
them to the Series.[35] Berra was immediately signed by the crosstown Mets 
as a coach. He also put in four cameo appearances as a catcher early in 
the season. His last at-bat came on May 9, 1965, just three days shy of 
his 40th birthday. Berra stayed with the Mets as a coach under Stengel, 
Wes Westrum, and Gil Hodges for the next seven seasons, including their 
1969 World Series Championship season. He then became the team's manager 
in 1972, following Hodges' unexpected death in spring training.[36] The 
following season looked like a disappointment at first. Injuries plagued 
the Mets throughout the season. Midway through the 1973 season, the Mets 
were stuck in last place but in a very tight divisional race. In July, 
when a reporter asked Yogi if the season was over, he replied, "It ain't 
over till it's over."[37][38] As the Mets' key players came back to the 
lineup, a late surge allowed them to win the NL East despite an 82–79 record, 
making it the only time from 1970 through 1980 that the NL East was not 
won by either their rival Philadelphia Phillies or the Pittsburgh Pirates.[39][40] 
When the Mets faced the 99-win Cincinnati Reds in the 1973 National League 
Championship Series, a memorable fight erupted between Bud Harrelson and 
Pete Rose in the top of the fifth inning of Game Three. After the incident 
and the ensuing bench-clearing brawl had subsided, fans began throwing 
objects at Rose when he returned to his position in left field in the bottom 
half of the inning. Sparky Anderson pulled Rose and his Reds off the field 
until order was restored. When National League president Chub Feeney threatened 
the Mets with a forfeit, Berra walked out to left field with Willie Mays, 
Tom Seaver, Rusty Staub, and Cleon Jones in order to plead with the fans 
to desist.[41] Yogi's Mets went on to defeat the highly favored Big Red 
Machine in five games to capture the NL pennant. It was Berra's second 
as a manager, one in each league. The Mets fell to the Oakland Athletics 
in the 1973 World Series, but they went the distance in a close-fought 
seven-game series.[42] Berra's tenure as Mets manager ended with his firing 
on August 5, 1975. He had a record of 298 wins and 302 losses, which included 
the 1973 postseason. In 1976, he rejoined the Yankees as a coach. The team 
won its first of three consecutive AL titles, as well as the 1977 World 
Series and 1978 World Series, and (as had been the case throughout his 
playing days) Berra's reputation as a lucky charm was reinforced. Casey 
Stengel once said of his catcher, "He'd fall in a sewer and come up with 
a gold watch."[43] Berra was named Yankee manager before the 1984 season. 
Berra agreed to stay in the job for 1985 after receiving assurances that 
he would not be terminated, but the impatient Steinbrenner reneged, firing 
Berra anyway after the 16th game of the season. Moreover, instead of firing 
him personally, Steinbrenner dispatched Clyde King to deliver the news 
for him.[44] The incident caused a rift between Berra and Steinbrenner 
that was not mended for almost 15 years.[45] Berra joined the Houston Astros 
as bench coach in 1985,[46] where he again made it to the NLCS in 1986. 
The Astros lost the series in six games to the Mets.[47] Berra remained 
a coach in Houston for three more years, retiring after the 1989 season.[48] 
He finished his managerial career with a regular-season record of 484–444 
and a playoff record of 9–10.[49] After George Steinbrenner ventured to 
Berra's home in New Jersey to apologize in person for having mishandled 
Berra's firing as Yankee manager, Berra ended his 14-year estrangement 
from the Yankee organization in 1999 and worked in spring-training camp 
with catcher Jorge Posada.[50] In 1972, Berra was elected to the Baseball 
Hall of Fame.[51] The No. 8 was retired in 1972 by the Yankees, jointly 
honoring Berra and Bill Dickey, his predecessor as the Yankees' star catcher.[52] 
On August 22, 1988, Berra and Dickey were honored with plaques to be hung 
in Monument Park at Yankee Stadium. Berra's plaque calls him "A legendary 
Yankee" and cites his most frequent quote, "It ain't over till it's over". 
However, the honor was not enough to shake Berra's conviction that Steinbrenner 
had broken their personal agreement; Berra did not set foot in the stadium 
for another decade, until Steinbrenner publicly apologized to Berra.[53] 
In 1996, Berra received an honorary doctorate from Montclair State University,[51] 
which also named its own campus stadium Yogi Berra Stadium, opened in 1998, 
in his honor. The stadium is also used by the New Jersey Jackals, an independent 
professional baseball team.[54] In 1998, Berra appeared at No. 40 on The 
Sporting News list of the 100 Greatest Baseball Players,[55] and fan balloting 
elected him to the Major League Baseball All-Century Team.[51] At the 2008 
All-Star Game at Yankee Stadium, Berra had the honor of being the last 
of the 49 Hall of Famers in attendance to be announced. The hometown favorite 
received the loudest standing ovation of the group.[56] On July 18, 1999, 
Berra was honored with "Yogi Berra Day" at Yankee Stadium. Don Larsen threw 
the ceremonial first pitch to Berra to honor the perfect game of the 1956 
World Series. The celebration marked the return of Berra to the stadium, 
after the end of his 14-year feud with Yankees owner George Steinbrenner. 
The feud had started in 1985 when Steinbrenner, having promised Berra the 
job of Yankees' manager for the entire season, fired him after just sixteen 
games. Berra then vowed never to return to Yankee Stadium as long as Steinbrenner 
owned the team. On that day, Yankees pitcher David Cone threw a perfect 
game against the Montreal Expos,[57] only the 16th time it had ever been 
done in Major League history.[58] In 2008, Berra was inducted into the 
New Jersey Hall of Fame.[59] In 1998, the Yogi Berra Museum and Learning 
Center[60] and Yogi Berra Stadium (home of the New Jersey Jackals and Montclair 
State University baseball teams) opened on the campus of Montclair State 
University in Upper Montclair, New Jersey. The museum is the home of various 
artifacts, including the mitt with which Yogi caught the only perfect game 
in World Series history, several autographed and "game-used" items, and 
nine of Yogi's championship rings.[51] Berra was involved with the project 
and frequently visited the museum for signings, discussions, and other 
events. It was his intention to teach children important values such as 
sportsmanship and dedication on and off the baseball diamond.[61] On October 
8, 2014, a break-in and theft occurred at the museum, and several of Berra's 
World Series rings and other memorabilia were stolen.[62] On November 24, 
2015, Berra was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom posthumously 
by President Barack Obama in a ceremony at the White House attended by 
members of Berra's family, who accepted the award on his behalf.[63][64] 
At the ceremony, the President said: "Today we celebrate some extraordinary 
people. Innovators, artists and leaders who contribute to America's strength 
as a nation." Celebrating Berra's military service and remarkable baseball 
career, Obama used one of Berra's famous 'Yogiisms', saying, "One thing 
we know for sure: If you can't imitate him, don't copy him."[64] Berra 
and former teammate Phil Rizzuto were partners in a bowling alley venture 
in Clifton, New Jersey, originally called Rizzuto-Berra Lanes. The two 
eventually sold their stakes in the alley to new owners, who changed its 
name to Astro Bowl before selling the property to a developer, who closed 
the bowling alley in 1999 and converted it into retail space.[65][66] Berra 
was also involved in causes related to his Italian American heritage. He 
was a longtime supporter of the National Italian American Foundation (NIAF) 
and helped fund raise for the Foundation.[67] He was inducted into the 
Italian American Hall of Fame in 2004.[68] Berra was a recipient of the 
Boy Scouts of America's highest adult award, the Silver Buffalo Award.[69] 
Based on his style of speaking, Yogi was named "Wisest Fool of the Past 
50 Years" by The Economist magazine in January 2005.[70] In the 2007 television 
miniseries The Bronx is Burning, Berra was portrayed by actor Joe Grifasi. 
In the HBO sports docudrama 61*, Berra was portrayed by actor Paul Borghese, 
and Hank Steinberg's script included more than one of Berra's famous "Yogi-isms". 
In 2009, Berra appeared in the documentary film A Time for Champions, recounting 
his childhood memories of soccer in his native St. Louis.[71] Yogi and 
his wife Carmen were played by real-life newly married actors Peter Scolari 
and Tracey Shayne in the 2013 Broadway play Bronx Bombers.[72] Berra married 
Carmen Short on January 26, 1949. They had three sons and were longtime 
residents of Montclair, New Jersey (24 miles from Yankee Stadium) until 
his wife's declining health caused them to move into a nearby assisted 
living facility. Berra's sons also played professional sports: Dale Berra 
played shortstop for the Pittsburgh Pirates, New York Yankees (managed 
by Yogi in 1984–85), and Houston Astros; Tim Berra played pro football 
for the Baltimore Colts in 1974; and Larry Berra played for three minor 
league teams in the New York Mets organization. Carmen Berra died on March 
6, 2014, of complications from a stroke, the couple having recently celebrated 
their 65th anniversary.[73] Following Carmen's death, the house in Montclair 
was listed for sale at $888,000, a reference to Yogi's uniform number.[74] 
Berra died at age 90 of natural causes in his sleep in West Caldwell, New 
Jersey, on September 22, 2015 – 69 years to the day after his MLB debut.[75][76] 
The Yankees added a number "8" patch to their uniforms in honor of Berra,[77] 
and the Empire State Building was lit with vertical blue and white Yankee 
"pinstripes" on September 23.[78] New York City lowered all flags in the 
city to half-staff for a day in tribute.[79] A moment of silence was held 
before the September 23 games of the Yankees, Dodgers, Astros, Mets, Nationals, 
Tigers, Pirates, and his hometown St. Louis Cardinals, as well as the ALPB's 
Long Island Ducks.[78] The Yogi Berra Museum held a tribute on October 
4.[80] Berra's funeral services were held on September 29, and were broadcast 
by the YES Network. He was interred at the Gate of Heaven Cemetery in East 
Hanover, New Jersey. Berra was also well known for his impromptu pithy 
comments, malapropisms, and seemingly unintentional witticisms, known as 
"Yogi-isms". His "Yogi-isms" very often took the form of either an apparently 
obvious tautology or a paradoxical contradiction, but often with an underlying 
and powerful message that offered not just humor, but wisdom. Allen Barra 
has described them as "distilled bits of wisdom which, like good country 
