Nippon Professional Baseball (1950–present) The Yokohama DeNA BayStars 
(横浜DeNAベイスターズ, Yokohama Dī-Enu-Ē Beisutāzu?) are a professional baseball 
team in the Japanese Central League. Their home field is Yokohama Stadium, 
located in central Yokohama. The clubhouse is located near the stadium. 
The team has been known by several names since becoming a professional 
team in 1950. It adopted its current name in 2011 when the club was purchased 
by software company DeNA. The minor league team shares the same name and 
uniform as the parent team and plays in the Eastern League. The minor league 
home field is Yokosuka Stadium, located in Yokosuka, Kanagawa. The team 
began as the Taiyo Fishing Company, an amateur team currently affiliated 
with the Maruha Corporation (presently Maruha Nichiro). The team began 
to appear in national tournaments in the 1930s and won the National Sports 
Festival in 1948, giving it national recognition. In the 1949 off-season, 
the Japanese professional baseball league drastically expanded itself and 
many players from the Taiyo amateur team were recruited to join the professional 
leagues. The owner of the Taiyo company decided to join the newly expanded 
Central League, which was established in 1950. The team's first professional 
incarnation was as the Maruha Team. The franchise was based in Shimonoseki, 
Yamaguchi. The team name was changed to the Taiyō Whales (大洋ホエールズ, Taiyō 
Hoeeruzu?) shortly after the start of the 1950 season. The Whales received 
several veteran players from the Yomiuri Giants to compensate for their 
lack of players, but ended up in the bottom half of the standings each 
year. In 1951, there was talk of merging with the Hiroshima Carp, which 
had experienced serious financial problems but the merging never occurred 
due to massive protests from Hiroshima citizens. In 1952, it was decided 
that teams ending the season with a winning percentage below .300 would 
be disbanded or merged with other teams. The Shochiku Robins fell into 
this category, and were merged with the Taiyo Whales to become the Taiyō-Shochiku 
Robins (大洋松竹ロビンス, Taiyō Shōchiku Robinsu?) in January, 1953. However, the 
team's re-organization was not completed in time for the 1953 season, and 
the team ended up continuing its offices in both Shimonoseki and Kyoto. 
Home games took place in Osaka for geographical reasons, and the team's 
finances were managed by both the Taiyo and Shochiku companies until the 
franchise was officially transferred to Osaka in 1954 to become the Yō-Shō 
Robins (洋松ロビンス, Yō-Shō Robinsu?). The Shochiku Robins had won the 1950 
Central League championship before being merged. The Shochiku company discontinued 
its support in December, 1954, and the team name returned to the Taiyo 
Whales. The franchise moved to Kawasaki, Kanagawa, and obtained an exclusive 
home field, (Kawasaki Stadium), but ended up in last place six years in 
a row from 1954–1959. In 1960, the team recruited Osamu Mihara, who had 
been manager of the Nishitetsu Lions the previous year. Mihara led the 
team to its first pennant in 1960, and swept the Pacific League champions 
in the Japanese championship series. The team had been in last place the 
previous year. However, this success did not last long, and the team quickly 
fell back into last place in 1961. The Whales made a comeback in 1962, 
but trailed four games behind the Hanshin Tigers to end up in second place. 
They lost the league championship again to the Tigers in 1964, only one 
game (.008 winning percentage) away from first place. The team produced 
countless star players during the 1970s, but rarely ended the season above 
the .500 mark. The small Kawasaki Stadium made the Whales one of the most 
offensively productive teams in Japanese baseball history, but a weak pitching 
staff, and lack of financial support put the team out of serious contention. 
By 1976, the team had been planning on moving from Kawasaki to Yokohama, 
and support from the mayor of Yokohama allowed the team to gain financial 
support from the Kokudo Company. 55% of the team's share was retained by 
Taiyo, and the other 45% went to Kokudo. The team moved to Yokohama Stadium 
in central Yokohama. The team name was changed to the Yokohama Taiyō Whales 
(横浜大洋ホエールズ, Yokohama Taiyō Hoeeruzu?) to reflect the team`s new home town. 
The Kokudo Company sold its shares of the team to the Nippon Broadcasting 
System and TBS. The Nippon Broadcasting System obtained 30% of the shares, 
and TBS bought 15%, while Taiyo kept its 55%. The team enjoyed far more 
popularity during this period than in previous years, but continued to 
post only meager results in the standings, with their best placing being 
in 1979, when they finished second behind the Hiroshima Toyo Carp. In November, 
1992, Taiyo changed its name to the Maruha Corporation, and renamed the 
team as the Yokohama BayStars (横浜ベイスターズ, Yokohama Beisutāzu?). The BayStars 
were the last Japanese professional baseball team to not include the name 
of the parent company into the team name. Originally, the team was going 
to be renamed the Yokohama Whales, but new restrictions on whaling convinced 
the company to drop the original name. Some superstitious fans had believed 
that dead whales put a curse onto the team (the Maruha Corporation was 
famous for its whale meat products), preventing the Whales from winning 
championships. In his visit to the United States, Japanese Prime Minister 
Kiichi Miyazawa remarked to former president Bill Clinton (who had proposed 
international restriction on whaling) that the Maruha Corporation's decision 
was reflective of Japan's change in attitude towards whaling. The BayStars 
remained a non-contender during the early 1990s, but gradually assembled 
the players that would contribute to the team's championship in 1998. Akihiko 
Ohya became manager in 1996, and almost caught up to the Yakult Swallows 
in 1997, ending in second place. Hiroshi Gondo (a pitching coach the previous 
year) became manager in 1998, and the BayStars won their first league championship 
in 38 years in 1998, defeating the Seibu Lions to win the Japanese championship 
series. The team's consistent hitting, impeccable defense, (players from 
the BayStars won five golden glove awards in 1998) and solid pitching staff 
(rounded by closer Kazuhiro Sasaki) contributed to an epic 1998 season. 
The BayStars' offense in the '98 season became known as the "Machine Gun 
Offense" because of the quick succession of hits the Yokohama batters would 
get (mostly singles), and no game was ever over until the final out was 
recorded. The team dropped to third place in 1999 despite having the best 
offense in Japan and also setting a league record for team batting average 
at .294, and has not been in serious contention for the championship ever 
since. In 2001, the Maruha Corporation sold its remaining shares to TBS, 
giving TBS full control of the team's finances. Akihiko Ohya returned in 
2007 after leaving the team in 1997. In 2009 the team finished in the bottom 
of the league despite having a few young stars on the team like slugger 
Shuichi Murata and league batting champion Seiichi Uchikawa, and also having 
the pitching of Daisuke Miura and the signing of foreign star Ryan Glynn. 
On May 18, 2009, The Baystars management announced that it has fired Ohya 
and appointed Tomio Tashiro as acting manager. In 2011, the franchise was 
acquired by mobile game company DeNA. The name was changed to reflect this, 
and they changed their mascot from Hosshey to Starman, who wore the new 
jersey. In October 2015 Alex Ramírez, a former BayStars player and the 
only foreign-born player to have 2,000 hits in Japanese baseball, was named 
as manager for the 2016 season. He replaced Kiyoshi Nakahata, who resigned 
at the end of the 2015 to take responsibility for the club's poor performance.[1] 
[2] None Active: None Former: They have been represented by various star-themed 
