Yokohama (横浜?) ( listen (help·info)), officially the City of Yokohama (横浜市, 
Yokohama-shi), is the second largest city in Japan by population, and most 
populous municipality of Japan. It is the capital city of Kanagawa Prefecture. 
It lies on Tokyo Bay, south of Tokyo, in the Kantō region of the main island 
of Honshu. It is a major commercial hub of the Greater Tokyo Area. Yokohama's 
population of 3.7 million makes it Japan's largest city after the Special 
Wards of Tokyo. Yokohama developed rapidly as Japan's prominent port city 
following the end of Japan's relative isolation in the mid-19th century, 
and is today one of its major ports along with Kobe, Osaka, Nagoya, Hakata, 
Tokyo, and Chiba. Yokohama was a small fishing village up to the end of 
the feudal Edo period, when Japan held a policy of national seclusion, 
having little contact with foreigners.[2] A major turning point in Japanese 
history happened in 1853–54, when Commodore Matthew Perry arrived just 
south of Yokohama with a fleet of American warships, demanding that Japan 
open several ports for commerce, and the Tokugawa shogunate agreed by signing 
the Treaty of Peace and Amity.[3] It was initially agreed that one of the 
ports to be opened to foreign ships would be the bustling town of Kanagawa-juku 
(in what is now Kanagawa Ward) on the Tōkaidō, a strategic highway that 
linked Edo to Kyoto and Osaka. However, the Tokugawa shogunate decided 
that Kanagawa-juku was too close to the Tōkaidō for comfort, and port facilities 
were instead built across the inlet in the sleepy fishing village of Yokohama. 
The Port of Yokohama was officially opened on June 2, 1859.[4] Yokohama 
quickly became the base of foreign trade in Japan. Foreigners initially 
occupied the low-lying district of the city called Kannai, residential 
districts later expanding as the settlement grew to incorporate much of 
the elevated Yamate district overlooking the city, commonly referred to 
by English speaking residents as The Bluff. Kannai, the foreign trade and 
commercial district (literally, inside the barrier), was surrounded by 
a moat, foreign residents enjoying extraterritorial status both within 
and outside the compound. Interactions with the local population, particularly 
young samurai, outside the settlement inevitably caused problems; the Namamugi 
Incident, one of the events that preceded the downfall of the shogunate, 
took place in what is now Tsurumi Ward in 1862, and prompted the brief 
Anglo-Japanese War of 1863. To protect British commercial and diplomatic 
interests in Yokohama a military garrison was established in 1862. With 
the growth in trade increasing numbers of Chinese also came to settle in 
the city.[5] Yokohama was the scene of many notable firsts for Japan including 
the growing acceptance of western fashion, photography by pioneers such 
as Felice Beato, Japan's first English language newspaper, the Japan Herald 
published in 1861 and in 1865 the first ice cream and beer to be produced 
in Japan.[6] Recreational sports introduced to Japan by foreign residents 
in Yokohama included European style horse racing in 1862, cricket in 1863[7] 
and rugby union in 1866. A great fire destroyed much of the foreign settlement 
on November 26, 1866 and smallpox was a recurrent public health hazard, 
but the city continued to grow rapidly attracting both foreigners and local 
Japanese. After the Meiji Restoration of 1868, the port was developed for 
trading silk, the main trading partner being Great Britain. Western influence 
and technological transfer contributed to the establishment of Japan's 
first daily newspaper (1870), first gas-powered street lamps (1872) and 
Japan's first railway constructed in the same year to connect Yokohama 
to Shinagawa and Shinbashi in Tokyo. In 1872 Jules Verne portrayed Yokohama, 
which he had never visited, in an episode of his widely read Around the 
World in Eighty Days, capturing the atmosphere of the fast-developing, 
internationally oriented Japanese city. In 1887, a British merchant, Samuel 
Cocking, built the city's first power plant. At first for his own use, 
this coal-burning plant became the basis for the Yokohama Cooperative Electric 
Light Company. The city was officially incorporated on April 1, 1889.[8] 
By the time the extraterritoriality of foreigner areas was abolished in 
1899, Yokohama was the most international city in Japan, with foreigner 
areas stretching from Kannai to the Bluff area and the large Yokohama Chinatown. 
The early 20th century was marked by rapid growth of industry. Entrepreneurs 
built factories along reclaimed land to the north of the city toward Kawasaki, 
which eventually grew to be the Keihin Industrial Area. The growth of Japanese 
industry brought affluence, and many wealthy trading families constructed 
sprawling residences there, while the rapid influx of population from Japan 
and Korea also led to the formation of Kojiki-Yato, then the largest slum 
in Japan. Much of Yokohama was destroyed on September 1, 1923 by the Great 
Kantō earthquake. The Yokohama police reported casualties at 30,771 dead 
and 47,908 injured, out of a pre-earthquake population of 434,170.[9] Fuelled 
by rumours of rebellion and sabotage, vigilante mobs thereupon murdered 
many Koreans in the Kojiki-yato slum.[10] Many people believed that Koreans 
used black magic to cause the earthquake. Martial law was in place until 
November 19. Rubble from the quake was used to reclaim land for parks, 
the most famous being the Yamashita Park on the waterfront which opened 
in 1930. Yokohama was rebuilt, only to be destroyed again by thirty-odd 
U.S. air raids during World War II. An estimated seven or eight thousand 
people were killed in a single morning on May 29, 1945 in what is now known 
as the Great Yokohama Air Raid, when B-29s firebombed the city and in just 
one hour and nine minutes reduced 42% of it to rubble.[8] During the American 
occupation, Yokohama was a major transshipment base for American supplies 
and personnel, especially during the Korean War. After the occupation, 
most local U.S. naval activity moved from Yokohama to an American base 
in nearby Yokosuka. The city was designated by government ordinance on 
September 1, 1956.[citation needed] The city's tram and trolleybus system 
was abolished in 1972, the same year as the opening of the first line of 
Yokohama Municipal Subway. Construction of Minato Mirai 21 ("Port Future 
21"), a major urban development project on reclaimed land, started in 1983. 
Minato Mirai 21 hosted the Yokohama Exotic Showcase in 1989, which saw 
the first public operation of maglev trains in Japan and the opening of 
Cosmo Clock 21, then the tallest Ferris wheel in the world. The 860m-long 
Yokohama Bay Bridge opened in the same year. In 1993, Minato Mirai saw 
the opening of the Yokohama Landmark Tower, the second tallest building 
in Japan. The 2002 FIFA World Cup final was held in June at the International 
Stadium Yokohama. In 2009, the city marked the 150th anniversary of the 
opening of the port and the 120th anniversary of the commencement of the 
City Administration. An early part in the commemoration project incorporated 
the Fourth Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD IV) 
which was held in Yokohama in May 2008. In November 2010, Yokohama hosted 
the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) meeting. Yokohama's foreign 
population of nearly 78,000 includes Chinese, Koreans, Filipinos, and Brazilians.[12] 
Yokohama features a humid subtropical climate (Köppen: Cfa) with hot and 
humid summers and chilly winters. Weatherwise, Yokohama has a mixed bag 
of rain, cloud and sun, although in Winter, it is surprisingly sunny, more 
so than Southern Spain. Winter temperatures rarely drop below freezing, 
while summer can get quite warm due to humidity effects.[13] The coldest 
temperature was on 24 January 1927 when −8.2 °C (17.2 °F) was reached, 
whilst the hottest day was 11 August 2013 at 37.4 °C (99.3 °F). The highest 
monthly rainfall has been in October 2004 with 761.5 millimetres (30.0 in), 
closely followed by July 1941 with 753.4 millimetres (29.66 in), whilst 
December and January have recorded no measurable precipitation three times 
each. The Yokohama Municipal Assembly consists of 92 members elected from 
18 Wards total. The LDP has minority control with 30 seats with Democratic 
Party of Japan with a close 29. The mayor is Fumiko Hayashi, who succeeded 
Hiroshi Nakada in September 2009. Yokohama has 18 wards (ku): The city 
has a strong economic base, especially in the shipping, biotechnology, 
and semiconductor industries. Nissan moved its headquarters to Yokohama 
from Chūō, Tokyo in 2010.[16] Yokohama is the world's 31st largest seaport 
in terms of total cargo volume, at 121,326 freight tons as of 2011[update], 
and is ranked 37th in terms of TEUs (Twenty-foot equivalent units).[17] 
In 2013 APM Terminals Yokohama facility was recognised as the most productive 
container terminal in the world averaging 163 crane moves per hour, per 
ship between the vessel's arrival and departure at the berth.[18] Yokohama 
is serviced by the Tōkaidō Shinkansen, a high-speed rail line with a stop 
at Shin-Yokohama Station. Yokohama Station is also a major station, with 
two million passengers daily. The Yokohama Municipal Subway provides metro 
services. Public elementary and middle schools are operated by the city 
of Yokohama. There are nine public high schools which are operated by the 
Yokohama City Board of Education,[19] and a number of public high schools 
which are operated by the Kanagawa Prefectural Board of Education. Yokohama 
National University is a leading university in Yokohama which is also one 
of the highest ranking national universities in Japan. The historic downtown 
port district, location of the first foreign settlement, is known as Kannai. 
Next to the waterfront Yamashita Park is the museum ship, Hikawa Maru, 
and the Yokohama Marine Tower, the tallest inland lighthouse in the world.[20] 
Further inland lies Yokohama Chinatown, the largest Chinatown in Japan 
and one of the largest in the world. Nearby is Yokohama Stadium, the Yokohama 
Silk Museum, and the Yokohama Doll Museum.[21] The Isezakichō and Noge 
areas offer many colourful shops and bars that, with their restaurants 
and stores catering to residents from China, Thailand, South Korea, and 
other countries, have an increasingly international flavour. The small 
but fashionable Motomachi shopping area leads up to Yamate, or "The Bluff" 
as it used to be known, a 19th/early 20th century Westerners' settlement 
overlooking the harbour, scattered with foreigners' mansions. A foreigners' 
cemetery and the Harbour View Park (港の見える丘公園, Minato no mieru oka kōen) 
is in the area. Within the park are a rose garden and the Kanagawa Museum 
of Modern Literature. There are various points of interest in the futuristic 
Minato Mirai 21 harbourside redevelopment. The highlights are the Landmark 
Tower which was the tallest building in Japan (until surpassed in 2014 
by the Abeno Harukas building in Osaka), Queen's Square Yokohama (a shopping 
mall) and the Cosmo Clock 21, which was the tallest Ferris wheel in the 
world when it was built in 1989 and which also doubles as "the world's 
biggest clock". The Shin-Yokohama district, where the Shinkansen station 
is located, is some distance away from the harbour area, and features the 
17,000 capacity Yokohama Arena, the Shin-Yokohama Raumen Museum and Nissan 
Stadium, known as the International Stadium Yokohama when it was the setting 
for the final for the 2002 FIFA World Cup. The city is home to the Central 
League baseball team, the Yokohama BayStars, and the soccer teams, Yokohama 
F. Marinos and Yokohama F.C. Sankei-en is a traditional Japanese-style 
garden in Naka Ward.[22] Designed by businessman Tomitaro Hara, it contains 
seventeen old buildings brought from all over Japan, ten of which have 
been declared Important National Cultural Properties.[22] Among the attractions 
are festivals and events.[23] Yokohama has sister-city relationships with 
