Nippon Professional Baseball (1950–present) The Yomiuri Giants (読売ジャイアンツ, 
Yomiuri Jaiantsu?) are a professional baseball team based in Bunkyo, Tokyo, 
Japan. The team competes in the Central League in Nippon Professional Baseball. 
They play their home games in the Tokyo Dome, opened in 1988. The team's 
owner is the Yomiuri Group, a media conglomerate which includes two newspapers 
and a television network. The Giants are the oldest team among the current 
Japanese professional teams. Their main rivalry is with the Hanshin Tigers, 
a team especially popular in the Kansai region. The Yomiuri Giants are 
regarded as "The New York Yankees of Japan" due to their widespread popularity, 
past dominance of the league, and polarizing effect on fans. (Baseball 
fans who are indifferent about teams other than their local team often 
have an intense dislike for the Giants; on the other hand, the Giants have 
a large fan base even in areas with a local team.) The English-language 
press occasionally calls the team the "Tokyo Giants",[citation needed] 
but that name has not been in use in Japan for decades. (Lefty O'Doul, 
a former Major League Baseball player, named the team "Tokyo Giants" in 
the mid-1930s.) Instead, the team is officially known by the name of its 
corporate owner, just like the Hanshin Tigers and Orix Buffaloes. The team 
is often referred by fans and in news headlines and tables simply as Kyojin 
(巨人, the Japanese word for "giant(s)"), instead of the usual corporate 
owner's name or the English nickname. The Yomiuri Giants name and uniforms 
were based on the New York (now San Francisco) Giants. The team's colors 
(orange and black) are the same colors worn by the National League's Giants 
(both in New York and San Francisco). The stylized lettering on the team's 
jerseys and caps is similar to the fancy lettering used by the Giants when 
they played in New York in the 1930s, although during the 1970s the Yomiuri 
Giants modernized their lettering to follow the style worn by the American 
Giants. The team began in 1934 as The Great Japan Tokyo Baseball Club (大日本東京野球倶楽部 
Dai-Nippon Tōkyō Yakyū Kurabu?), a team of all-stars organized by media 
mogul Matsutarō Shōriki that matched up against an American All-Star team 
that included Babe Ruth, Jimmie Foxx, Lou Gehrig, and Charlie Gehringer. 
While prior Japanese all-star contingents had disbanded, Shōriki went pro 
with this group, playing in an independent league. In 1936, with the formation 
of the Japanese Baseball League, the team changed its name to Tokyo Kyojin. 
It won eight league championships under that name from 1936–1943, including 
at one point six championships in a row. Pitcher Victor Starffin, nicknamed 
"the blue-eyed Japanese", starred for the team until 1944. One of the league's 
premier pitchers, he won two MVP awards and a Best Nine award, and won 
at least 26 games in six different years, winning a league record 42 games 
in 1939. He followed his record-setting performance with another 38 wins 
in 1940. Pitcher Eiji Sawamura co-starred with Starffin on the Kyojin. 
He pitched the first no-hitter in Japanese pro baseball, on September 25, 
1936, as well as two others. In 1937, he went 33-10 with a 1.38 earned 
run average. From 1937 to 1943 Sawamura had a record of 63-22, 554 strikeouts, 
and a 1.74 ERA. Sawamura enlisted in the Japanese Imperial Army in 1943, 
and was killed in battle when his ship was torpedoed near the end of World 
War II. Outfielder Haruyasu Nakajima was a featured hitter during the franchise's 
first decade-and-a-half, and as player-manager led the Kyojin to a championship 
in 1941. Tetsuharu Kawakami was a team fixture from 1938–1958, winning 
the batting title five times, two home run crowns, three RBI titles, and 
had six titles for the most hits in a season. He was the first player in 
Japanese pro baseball to achieve 2,000 hits and was named the league's 
MVP three times. Leadoff man Shosei Go starred for the team from 1937–1943, 
winning league MVP in 1943. Only 5-foot-6 and 140 pounds, he was nicknamed 
"The Human Locomotive" due to his speed. Pitcher Hideo Fujimoto (also known 
as Hideo Nakagami) pitched for the team for 12 seasons from 1942–1955. 
He holds the Japanese records for lowest career ERA (1.90) and seasonal 
ERA (0.73 in 1943), as well as best all-time winning percentage (.697). 
He threw two career no-hitters, including the first perfect game in professional 
baseball. In addition, he served as the Giants' player-manager in 1944 
and part of 1946. In 1947 the team became the Yomiuri Giants, winning the 
final JBL championship in 1949 (again under player-manager Haruyasu Nakajima). 
From 1949–1987 the Giants played at Korakuen Stadium, moving to their current 
home the Tokyo Dome in 1988. In 1950 the Giants were one of the founding 
members of Nippon Professional Baseball, joining the Central League. Hawaiian 
Wally Yonamine was the first American to play professional baseball in 
Japan after World War II when he joined the Giants in 1951. A multi-skilled 
outfielder, as a Giant Yonamine was a member of four Japan Series Championship 
teams, the Central League Most Valuable Player in 1957, a consecutive seven-time 
Best Nine Award winner (1952–58), an eleven-time All-Star, and a three-time 
batting champion. The team was the Central League champion every year from 
1955–1959, winning the Japan Series championship in 1955, but losing four 
consecutive Japan Series thereafter. World career home run record holder 
Sadaharu Oh starred for the Giants from 1959–1980, and fellow Hall of Famer 
Shigeo Nagashima played for the team from 1958–1974. The Giants lineup, 
consisting of Oh batting third and Nagashima batting fourth, was nicknamed 
the ON Hou, (translated to: Oh-Nagashima Cannon) as the two players emerged 
as the best hitters in the league. Now the team's manager, Tetsuharu Kawakami 
led the Giants to nine consecutive Japan Series championships from 1965–1973,[1] 
and Oh and Nagashima dominated the batting titles during this period. During 
his career, Oh was a five-time batting champion and fifteen-time home-run 
champion, and won the Central League most valuable player award nine times. 
Nagashima won the season MVP award five times, and the Best Nine Award 
every single year of his career (a total 17 times). Future Hall of Famer 
Tsuneo Horiuchi pitched for the team during its heyday, from 1966–1983. 
The renowned left-hander Masaichi Kaneda pitched for the team from 1965–1969, 
later having his number retired by the Giants. Shigeo Nagashima was appointed 
manager of the Giants almost immediately after his retirement in 1974, 
staying in that position until 1980. After a couple of down years the Giants 
re-assumed their dominant position in the Central League, winning league 
championships in 1976 and 1977. Sadaharu Oh rejoined the team as manager 
from 1984 to 1988. Nagashima returned as Giants manager from 1993–2001, 
winning Japan Series championships in 1994, 1996, and 2000. Outfielder 
Hideki Matsui starred for the Giants for ten seasons in the 1990s and early 
2000s before migrating to Major League Baseball. He was a three-time NPB 
MVP, leading his team to four Japan Series, winning three titles (1994, 
2000 and 2002), and earning the popular nickname "Godzilla." He also made 
nine consecutive All-Star Games and led the league in home runs and RBIs 
three times. Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Catchers 
Outfielders Manager Updated Jun 6, 2016 → All NPB rosters Due to the Yomiuri 
company's vast influence in Japan as a major media conglomerate, the Giants 
are successfully marketed to the Japanese people as "Japan's Team." In 
fact, for some years the Giants' uniforms had "Tokyo" on the jersey instead 
of "Yomiuri" or "Giants", seeming to imply that the Giants represent the 
vast metropolis and geopolitical center of Japan, even though the Yakult 
Swallows are also based in Tokyo and three other teams play in the Greater 
Tokyo Area. This bandwagon appeal has been compared with the marketability 
of the New York Yankees, Real Madrid, and Manchester United, except that 
support for the Giants nearly exceeds 50% of those polled, while in the 
United States and England, support is judged to be between 30 and 40 percent 
for the New York Yankees and Manchester United, respectively. Correspondingly, 
fans of other professional baseball teams in Japan are often openly derisive 
and contemptuous of the Giants' bandwagon marketing tactics, and an "anti-Giants" 
movement exists in protest of the near hegemony established by the Yomiuri 
Giants.[2] It has also long been alleged that the Giants rely on underhanded 
tactics to recruit the best players, involving bribes to players and amateur 
coaches, or using their influence on the governing council of Japanese 
professional baseball to pass rules that favors their recruiting efforts. 
This may be one explanation for the Giants' abundance of success in league 
play.[2] In August 2004, Yomiuri president Tsuneo Watanabe resigned after 
it was revealed that the club had violated scouting rules by paying ¥2 
million to pitching prospect Yasuhiro Ichiba. Ten months later, Watanabe 
was hired as chairman of the Yomiuri corporation.[3] In 2012, Asahi Shimbun 
discovered that the Giants had violated NPB rules by secretly paying pitcher 
Takahiko Nomaguchi while he was still an amateur playing in Japan's corporate 
league.[4] In 2009, the Giants played the Japan national baseball team 
in an unofficial goodwill game before the World Baseball Classic. In 1985, 
American Randy Bass, playing for the Hanshin Tigers, came into the last 
game of the season against the Oh-managed Giants with 54 home runs, one 
short of manager Sadaharu Oh's single-season record of 55. Bass was intentionally 
walked four times on four straight pitches each time, leading Bass to famously 
hold his bat upside down. Bass reached over the plate on the fifth occasion 
and batted the ball into the outfield for a single. After the game, Oh 
denied ordering his pitchers to walk Bass, but Keith Comstock, an American 
pitcher for the Giants, later stated that an unnamed Giants coach had threatened 
a fine of $1,000 for every strike that any Giants pitcher threw to Bass. 
The magazine Takarajima investigated the incident and reported that the 
Giants front office had likely ordered the team not to allow Bass an opportunity 
to tie or break Oh's record. For the most part the Japanese media remained 
silent on the incident as did league commissioner Takeso Shimoda.[5] A 
similar situation to this was presented in the 1992 movie Mr. Baseball. 
On 18 November 2011, Giants' general manager Hidetoshi Kiyotake was fired 
by the Yomiuri organization for "defamation of the team and Yomiuri newspaper 
group." Kiyotake had recommended that Kaoru Okazaki be retained as the 
team's 2012 head coach. After Yomiuri chairman Tsuneo Watanabe ordered 
Kiyotake to replace Okazaki with Suguru Egawa, Kiyotake called a public 
press conference on 11 November 2011 to complain about Watanabe's interference 
in the club's decision-making processes. Yomiuri's response was to fire 
Kiyotake.[3] Okazaki was eventually selected to remain as the next season's 
coach. The story made major headlines in the Japanese media.[6] On 13 December 
2011, Kiyotake sued Yomiuri for ¥62 million for unfair dismissal and defamation 
and demanded that the company issue him a formal apology, printed in the 
Yomiuri Shimbun.[7] Yomiuri counter-sued Kiyotake for ¥100 million, saying 
that he had damaged the team's image. The suits, combined into one case, 
opened in Tokyo District Court on 2 February 2012.[8] In 2012 Japanese 
weekly Shukan Bunshun reported that current team manager Tatsunori Hara 
had paid ¥100 million to a former Yakuza gangster in response to a threat 
to go public on an extra-marital affair that Hara had been involved in. 
The Yomiuri corporation admitted that the payout had been made, but sued 
Shukan Bunshun for insinuating that the incident had underworld connections. 
The suit is pending.[9] In 2015, an investigation by the league found that 
three Giants pitchers: Shoki Kasahara, Ryuya Matsumoto, and Satoshi Fukuda 
had bet on NPB and other sporting events with underworld bookmakers. The 
Giants claimed that the three did not bet on Giants games. Placing wagers 
on baseball games or associating with criminal elements is expressly prohibited 
