The Yomiuri Shimbun (読売新聞, Yomiuri Shinbun?) is a Japanese newspaper published 
in Tokyo, Osaka, Fukuoka, and other major Japanese cities.[2] It is part 
of the Yomiuri Group, Japan's largest media conglomerate.[3] It is one 
of the five national newspapers in Japan; the other four are the Asahi 
Shimbun, the Mainichi Shimbun, Nihon Keizai Shimbun, and the Sankei Shimbun. 
The headquarters is in Otemachi, Chiyoda, Tokyo.[4] Founded in 1874,[5] 
the Yomiuri Shimbun is credited with having the largest newspaper circulation 
in the world,[6][7] having a combined morning and evening circulation of 
14,323,781 through January 2002. In 2010, the daily was the number one 
in the list of the world's biggest selling newspapers with a circulation 
of 10,021,000.[8] As of mid-year 2011, it still had a combined morning-evening 
circulation of almost 13.5 million for its national edition.[9] The paper 
is printed twice a day and in several different local editions. Yomiuri 
Shimbun established the Yomiuri Prize in 1948. Its winners have included 
Yukio Mishima and Haruki Murakami. The Yomiuri was launched in 1874 by 
the Nisshusha newspaper company as a small daily newspaper. Throughout 
the 1880s and 1890s the paper came to be known as a literary arts publication 
with its regular inclusion of work by writers such as Ozaki Kōyō. In 1924, 
Shoriki Matsutaro took over management of the company. His innovations 
included improved news coverage, a full-page radio program guide, and the 
establishment of Japan's first professional baseball team (now known as 
the Yomiuri Giants). The emphasis of the paper shifted to broad news coverage 
aimed at readers in the Tokyo area. By 1941 it had the largest circulation 
of any daily newspaper in the Tokyo area. In 1942, under wartime conditions, 
it merged with the Hochi Shimbun and became known as the Yomiuri-Hochi. 
The Yomiuri was the center of a labor scandal in 1945 and 1946. In October, 
1945, a postwar "democratization group" called for the removal of Shoriki 
Matsutaro, who had supported Imperial Japan's policies during World War 
II. When Shoriki responded by firing five of the leading figures of this 
group, the writers and editors performed the first "production control" 
strike on October 27, 1945. This method of striking became an important 
union tactic in the coal, railroad, and other industries during the postwar 
period. The Yomiuri employees continued to produce the paper without heeding 
executive orders until a police raid on June 21, 1946.[10] In February 
2009, tie-up with The Wall Street Journal (WSJ) for edit, printing and 
distribution, then from March the major news headlines of the WSJ's Asian 
edition are summarized in the evening edition in Japanese. It features 
the Jinsei Annai advice column. The Yomiuri has a history of promoting 
nuclear power within Japan. During the 1950s Matsutaro Shoriki, the head 
of the Yomiuri, agreed to use his newspaper to promote nuclear power in 
Japan for the CIA.[11] In May 2011, when the then Japanese prime minister 
Naoto Kan requested Chubu Electric Power Company to shut down several of 
its Hamaoka Nuclear Power Plants due to safety concerns, the Yomiuri responded 
with criticism, calling the move "abrupt" and a difficult situation for 
Chubu Electric's shareholders. It wrote Kan "should seriously reflect on 
the way he made his request."[12] It then followed up with an article wondering 
about how dangerous Hamaoka really was and called Kan's request "a political 
judgment that went beyond technological worthiness."[13] The next day damage 
to the pipes inside the condenser was discovered at one of the plants following 
a leak of seawater into the reactor.[14] In 2012, the paper reported that 
agricultural minister Nobutaka Tsutsui had divulged secret information 
to a Chinese agricultural enterprise. Tsutsui sued Yomiuri Shimbun for 
libel, and was awarded 3.3 million yen in damages in 2015 on the basis 
that the truth of the allegations could not be confirmed.[15] In November 
2014 the newspaper became controversial, forced to apologize for referencing 
to the euphemistically named 'comfort women'.[16][17][18][clarification 
needed] The Yomiuri Shimbun is conservative and sometimes considered a 
centre-right newspaper.[1][19] The Yomiuri newspaper said in an editorial 
in 2011 "No written material supporting the claim that government and military 
authorities were involved in the forcible and systematic recruitment of 
comfort women has been discovered", and that it regarded the Asian Women's 
Fund, set up to compensate for wartime abuses, as a failure based on a 
misunderstanding of history.[20] The New York Times reported on similar 
statements previously, writing that "The nation's (Japan's) largest newspaper, 
Yomiuri Shimbun, applauded the revisions" regarding removing the word "forcibly" 
from referring to laborers brought to Japan in the prewar period and revising 
the comfort women controversy.[21] More recently the Yomiuri editorials 
have opposed the DPJ government and denounced denuclearization as "not 
a viable option".[22] Yomiuri also publishes The Japan News (formerly called 
The Daily Yomiuri),[23] one of Japan's largest English-language newspapers.[citation 
needed] It publishes the daily Hochi Shimbun, a sport-specific daily newspaper, 
as well as weekly and monthly magazines and books. Yomiuri Shimbun Holdings 
owns the Chuokoron-Shinsha publishing company, which it acquired in 1999, 
and the Nippon Television network. It is a member of the Asia News Network. 
The paper is known as the de facto financial patron of the baseball team 
Yomiuri Giants. They also sponsor the Japan Fantasy Novel Award annually. 
It has been a sponsor of the FIFA Club World Cup every time it has been 
held in Japan since 2006. In November 1999, The Yomiuri Shimbun released 
a CD-ROM titled "The Yomiuri Shimbun in the Meiji Era," which provided 
searchable archives of news articles and images from the period that have 
been digitalized from microfilm. This was the first time a newspaper made 
it possible to search digitalized images of newspaper pictures and articles 
as they appeared in print. Subsequent CD-ROMs, "The Taisho Era", "The pre-war 
Showa Era I", and "The pre-war Showa era II" were completed eight years 
after the project was first conceived. "Postwar Recovery", the first part 
of a postwar Showa Era series that includes newspaper stories and images 
until 1960, is on the way. The system of indexing each newspaper article 
and image makes the archives easier to search, and the CD-ROMs have been 
well received by users as a result. This digital resource is available 
in most major academic libraries in the United States. The Yomiuri Group 
