Coordinates: 40°56′29″N 73°51′52″W﻿ / ﻿40.94139°N 73.86444°W﻿ / 40.94139; 
-73.86444 Yonkers (US /ˈjɑːŋkərz/[3]) is the fourth most populous city 
in the U.S. state of New York (behind New York City, Buffalo, and Rochester), 
and the most populous city in Westchester County, with a population of 
195,976 (according to the 2010 Census). It is an inner suburb of New York 
City, directly to the north of the Bronx and approximately two miles (3 km) 
north of the northernmost point in Manhattan. Yonkers's downtown is centered 
on a plaza known as Getty Square, where the municipal government is located. 
The area also houses significant local businesses and non-profits, and 
serves as a major retail hub for Yonkers and the northwest Bronx. The city 
is home to several attractions, including the Hudson River Museum; Saw 
Mill River Daylighting, wherein a parking lot was removed to uncover a 
river; Science Barge; Sherwood House; and Yonkers Raceway, a harness racing 
track that has renovated its grounds and clubhouse and added legalized 
video slot machine gambling in 2006 in a "racino" called Empire City. Major 
shopping areas can be found in Getty Square, on South Broadway, at the 
Cross County Shopping Center and Westchester's Ridge Hill, and along Central 
Park Avenue, informally called "Central Ave" by area residents, a name 
it takes officially a few miles north in White Plains. The land on which 
the city is built was once part of a 24,000-acre (97-square-kilometer) 
land grant called Colen Donck that ran from the current Manhattan-Bronx 
border at Marble Hill northwards for 12 miles (19 km), and from the Hudson 
River eastwards to the Bronx River. This grant was purchased in July 1645 
by Adriaen van der Donck, the first lawyer in North America. Van der Donck 
was known locally as the Jonkheer or Jonker (etymologically, "young gentleman," 
derivation of old Dutch jong (young) and heer ("lord"); in effect, "Esquire"), 
a word from which the name "Yonkers" is directly derived.[4] Van der Donck 
built a saw mill near where the Nepperhan Creek met the Hudson; the Nepperhan 
is now also known as the Saw Mill River. Van der Donck was killed in the 
Peach War. His wife, Mary Doughty, was taken captive and ransomed later. 
Near the site of van der Donck's mill is Philipse Manor Hall, a Colonial-era 
manor house which today serves as a museum and archive, offering many glimpses 
into life before the American Revolution. The original structure (later 
enlarged) was built around 1682 by Frederick Philipse and his wife Margaret 
Hardenbroeck. Frederick was a wealthy Dutchman who by the time of his death 
had amassed an enormous estate, which encompassed the entire modern City 
of Yonkers, as well as several other Hudson River towns. Philipse's great-grandson, 
Frederick Philipse III, was a prominent Loyalist during the American Revolution, 
who, because of his political leanings, was forced to flee to England. 
All the lands that belonged to the Philipse family were confiscated and 
sold. For its first two hundred years, Yonkers was a small farming town 
with an active industrial waterfront. Yonkers's later growth rested largely 
on developing industry. In 1853, Elisha Otis invented the first safety 
elevator and the Otis Elevator Company, opened the first elevator factory 
in the world on the banks of the Hudson near what is now Vark Street. It 
relocated to larger quarters (now the Yonkers Public Library) in the 1880s. 
Around the same time, the Alexander Smith and Sons Carpet Company (in the 
Saw Mill River Valley) expanded to 45 buildings, 800 looms, and over 4,000 
workers and was known as one of the premier carpet producing centers in 
the world. The community was incorporated as a village in the northern 
part of the Town of Yonkers in 1854 and as a city in 1872. In 1874 the 
southern part of Yonkers, including Kingsbridge and Riverdale, was annexed 
by New York City as The Bronx. In 1898, Yonkers (along with Brooklyn, Queens, 
and Staten Island) voted on a referendum to determine if they wanted to 
become part of New York City. While the results were positive elsewhere, 
the returns were so negative in Yonkers and neighboring Mount Vernon that 
those two areas were not included in the consolidated city, and remained 
independent.[5] Still, some residents call the city "the Sixth Borough" 
referring to its location on the New York City border, its urban character 
and the failed merger vote. The New York City and Northern Railway Company 
(later the New York Central Railroad) connected Yonkers to Manhattan and 
points north from 1888. A three-mile spur to Getty Square existed until 
1943.[6] Aside from being a manufacturing center, Yonkers also played a 
key role in the development of entertainment in the United States. In 1888, 
Scottish-born John Reid founded the first golf course in the United States, 
St. Andrew's Golf Club, in Yonkers.[7] Bakelite, the first completely synthetic 
plastic, was invented in Yonkers circa 1906 by Leo Baekeland, and manufactured 
there until the late 1920s. Today, two of the former Alexander Smith and 
Sons Carpet Company loft buildings located at 540 and 578 Nepperhan Avenue 
have been repurposed to house the YoHo Artist Community, a collective group 
of talented artists that works out of private studios there.[9] Early in 
the 20th century, Yonkers also hosted a brass era automobile maker, Colt 
Runabout Company;[10] despite the car's seemingly glowing performance, 
the company went under. Yonkers was also the headquarters of the Waring 
Hat Company, at the time the nation's largest hat manufacturer. World War 
II saw the city's factories manufacture such items as tents and blankets 
in the Alexander Smith and Sons Carpet Factory and tanks in the Otis Elevator 
factory. After World War II, however, with increased competition from less 
expensive imports, Yonkers lost much of its manufacturing activity. The 
Alexander Smith Carpet Company, one of the city's largest employers, ceased 
operation during a labor dispute in June 1954. In 1983, the Otis Elevator 
Factory finally closed its doors. With the loss of jobs in the city itself, 
Yonkers became primarily a residential city, and some neighborhoods, such 
as Crestwood and Park Hill, became popular with wealthy New Yorkers who 
wished to live outside Manhattan without giving up urban conveniences. 
Yonkers's excellent transportation infrastructure, including three commuter 
railroad lines (now two: the Harlem and Hudson Lines) and five parkways 
and thruways, as well as its 15-minute drive from Manhattan and picturesque 
prewar homes and apartment buildings, made it a desirable city in which 
to live. Yonkers's manufacturing sector has also shown a recent resurgence. 
On January 4, 1940, Yonkers resident Edwin Howard Armstrong transmitted 
the first FM radio broadcast (on station W2XCR) from the Yonkers home of 
C.R. Runyon, a co-experimenter. Yonkers also had the longest running pirate 
radio station, owned by Allan Weiner during the 1970s through the 1980s. 
In 1942, a short subway connection was planned between Getty Square and 
the IRT Broadway – Seventh Avenue Line, which terminates in Riverdale at 
242nd Street just slightly south of the city line, but the plan was dropped.[11][12] 
In 1960, the Census Bureau reported Yonkers's population as 95.8% white 
and 4.0% black.[13] The city's struggles with racial discrimination and 
segregation were highlighted in a decades-long federal lawsuit. After a 
1985 decision and an unsuccessful appeal, Yonkers's schools were integrated 
in 1988. The federal judge, Leonard B. Sand ruled that Yonkers had engaged 
in institutional segregation in housing and school policies for over 40 
years and tied the illegal concentration of public housing and private 
housing discrimination to the city's resistance to ending racial isolation 
in its public schools.[citation needed] In the 1980s and 1990s, Yonkers 
developed a national reputation for racial tension, based on a long-term 
battle between the City of Yonkers and the NAACP over the building of subsidized 
low-income housing projects. The city planned to use federal funding for 
urban renewal efforts within Downtown Yonkers exclusively; other groups, 
led by the NAACP, felt that the resulting concentration of low-income housing 
in traditionally poor neighborhoods perpetuated poverty. Yonkers gained 
national/international attention during the summer of 1988, when it reneged 
on its previous agreement to build promised municipal public housing in 
the eastern portions of the city, an agreement it had made in a consent 
decree after losing an appeal in 1987. After this reversal, the city was 
found in contempt of the federal courts, and United States district court 
Judge Leonard Sand imposed a fine on Yonkers which started at $1 and doubled 
every day until the city capitulated to the federally mandated plan. Yonkers 
remained in contempt of the courts until September 9, 1988, when the City 
Council relented in the wake of library closures and sanitation cutbacks 
and while looking at massive city layoffs, which would have been required 
to continue its resistance to desegregation. First-term mayor Nicholas 
C. Wasicsko fought to save the city from financial disaster and bring about 
unity. Yonkers's youngest mayor (elected at age 28), Wasicsko was a lonely 
figure in city politics, which was scarred with the stigma of the "Balkanization 
of Yonkers". He succeeded in helping to end the city's contempt of the 
courts, but was voted out of office as a result. A Kawasaki railroad cars 
assembly plant opened in 1986 in the former Otis plant, producing the new 
R142A, R143, R160B, and R188 cars for the New York City Subway, and the 
PA4 and PA5 series for PATH. The Irish-American community is prominent 
in Yonkers, and the city hosts one of the nation's oldest St. Patrick's 
Day parades. It is also home to a large Italian-American community, and 
the city hosts a large Columbus Day festival with a Miss Italian-American 
pageant. Yonkers also has a significant Portuguese population. Another 
large community is the Slavic community. In the early and mid 20th century 
a large number of people emigrated from Poland, Ukraine, Czechoslovakia, 
Russia, and Croatia. Recently a large number of immigrants from the former 
Yugoslavia have called Yonkers home. The Slavic community is centered around 
St. Casimir's Roman Catholic Church, Most Holy Trinity Roman Catholic Church, 
Holy Trinity Russian Orthodox Church, and St. Michael's Ukrainian Catholic 
Church. Yonkers still has a large Slavic community. The city also has a 
"stanytsia" (branch) of Plast. Yonkers also has a large Arab population, 
coinciding with the high percentage of Arabic speakers in Yonkers. Most 
of these Arabs come from the Levant region, mainly from Jordan, Palestine, 
and Lebanon, and are of the Christian faith. The Arabic community specifically 
Jordanian currently has three churches in the city, Virgin Mary Orthodox 
Church, St Mary's Roman Catholic Church, and Christ the Savior Melkite 
Church. The community settled in Yonkers in the late 1940s and has since 
continued a steady growth. There also once was a significant Jewish population 
(the Broadway plays Lost in Yonkers and Hello Dolly take place within the 
Yonkers Jewish community). However, it has dwindled. In the 2000s, some 
areas bordering similar neighborhoods in Riverdale began seeing an influx 
of Orthodox Jews. Subsequently, Riverdale Hatzalah Volunteer Ambulance 
Service began serving some neighborhoods in the southwest section of the 
city.[14] There is also a small Jewish cemetery, the Sherwood Park Cemetery.[15] 
The city is spread out over hills rising from near sea level at the eastern 
bank of the Hudson River to 416 feet (126 m) at Sacred Heart Church, whose 
spire can be seen from Long Island, New York City, and New Jersey. The 
city occupies 20.3 square miles (52.6 km²), including 18.1 square miles 
(46.8 km²) of land and 2.2 square miles (5.8 km²) (11.02%) of water, according 
to the United States Census Bureau. The Bronx River separates Yonkers from 
Mount Vernon, Tuckahoe, Eastchester, Bronxville, and Scarsdale to the east. 
The town of Greenburgh is to the north, and on the western border is the 
Hudson River. On the south, Yonkers borders the Riverdale, Woodlawn, and 
Wakefield sections of The Bronx. In addition, the southernmost point of 
Yonkers is only 2 miles (3 kilometres) north of the northernmost point 
of Manhattan when measured from Broadway & Caryl Avenue in Yonkers to Broadway 
& West 228th Street in the Marble Hill section of Manhattan. Much of the 
city grew up around the Saw Mill River, which enters Yonkers from the north 
and feeds into the Hudson River in the Getty Square neighborhood. Portions 
of the Saw Mill River that were buried in flumes beneath parking lots are 
being uncovered, or "daylighted". The gentilic for residents is alternately 
Yonkersonian or Yonkersite.[16] Yonkers has cold winters and hot summers, 
with average lows of 20 °F in January, and average highs of 85 °F in July. 
As of the census of 2010,[20] there were 195,976 people in the city. The 
population density was 10,827.4 people per square mile (4,187.5/km²). There 
were 80,839 housing units at an average density of 4,466.2 per square mile 
(1,727.3/km²). The racial makeup of the city was 55.8% White, 18.7% African 
American, 0.7% Native American, 5.9% Asian, 0.1% Pacific Islander, 14.7% 
from other races, and 4.1% from two or more races. 34.7% of the population 
were Hispanic or Latino of any racial background. Non-Hispanic Whites were 
41.4% of the population in 2010,[19] down from 89.9% in 1970.[13] According 
to the 2000 Census,[1] 19.9% were of Italian and 11.6% Irish descent. 61.3% 
spoke only English at home; 22.7% spoke Spanish, 3.9% Italian, 5% Arabic 
and 1.3% Portuguese at home. There were 74,351 households out of which 
30.9% have children under the age of 18 living with them in 2000, 44.2% 
are married couples living together, 17.2% have a female householder with 
no husband present, and 33.7% are non-families. 29.2% of all households 
are made up of individuals and 11.9% have someone living alone who is 65 
years of age or older. The average household size is 2.61 and the average 
family size is 3.23. In 2000, the city the population is spread out with 
24.3% under the age of 18, 8.8% from 18 to 25, 30.6% from 25 to 45, 21.2% 
from 45 to 65, and 15.0% who are 65 years of age or older. The median age 
is 36 years. For every 100 females there are 88.6 males. For every 100 
females age 18 and over, there are 84.2 males. The median income for a 
household in the city was $44,663 in 2000, and the median income for a 
family is $53,233. Males have a median income of $41,598 versus $34,756 
for females. The per capita income for the city is $22,793. 15.5% of the 
population and 13.0% of families are below the poverty line. Out of the 
total population, 24.8% of those under the age of 18 and 9.9% of those 
65 and older are living below the poverty line. Though Yonkers contains 
many small residential enclaves and communities, it can conveniently be 
divided into four quarters, demarcated by the Saw Mill River. There are 
37 or more distinct neighborhoods, though many of these names are rarely 
used today except by older residents and real-estate brokers. Northeast 
Yonkers is a primarily Irish-American and Italian-American area. Though 
suburban, it more closely resembles parts of the Bronx than the town of 
Greenburgh to the north. House sizes vary widely, from small houses set 
close together, to larger homes in areas like Lawrence Park West, and mid-rise 
apartment buildings along Central Avenue (NY 100). Central Avenue (officially 
named Central Park Avenue) provides an abundance of shopping for Yonkers 
residents. Shopping centers along Central Avenue include stores such as 
Best Buy, Burlington Coat Factory, Kohl's, Bob's Furniture and Barnes & 
Noble, as well as many other stores and restaurants. Notable former residents 
include Steven Tyler (born Steven Tallarico) of the rock band Aerosmith, 
whose childhood home was just off Central Avenue on Pembrook Drive. Northeastern 
Yonkers contains the upscale neighborhoods of Crestwood, Colonial Heights, 
and Cedar Knolls, as well as the wealthy enclaves of Beech Hill and Lawrence 
Park West. Landmarks include St Vladimir's Seminary, as well as Sarah Lawrence 
College, and the Tanglewood Shopping Center (one-time home of The Tanglewood 
Boys gang). Northeast Yonkers is somewhat more expensive than the rest 
of the city, and due to the proximity of several Metro-North commuter railroad 
stations, its residents tend to be employed in corporate positions in Manhattan. 
Northwest Yonkers is a collection of widely varying neighborhoods, spanning 
from the Hudson River to around the New York State Thruway/I-87 and from 
Ashburton Avenue north to the Hastings-on-Hudson border. With the Hudson 
River bordering it to the west, this area has many beautiful Victorian-era 
homes with panoramic views of the Palisades. An interest in historic preservation 
has taken hold in this neighborhood in recent years, as demonstrated on 
streets like Shonnard Terrace, Delavan Terrace and Hudson Terrace. The 
population of northwestern Yonkers is probably the most ethnically diverse 
in the city. Neighborhoods include Nepera Park, Runyon Heights, Homefield, 
Glenwood, and Greystone. Landmarks include the Hudson River Museum, Untermyer 
Park and the Lenoir Nature Preserve. The significant amount of surviving 
Victorian architecture and 19th century estates in northwest Yonkers has 
attracted many filmmakers in recent years. The two block section of Palisade 
Avenue between Chase and Roberts Avenues in northwest Yonkers is colloquially 
known as "the north end" or "the end". It was and still is the only retail 
area in the neighborhood, and was well known for an original soda fountain 
store, "Urich's," and Robbins Pharmacy. It was once the end of the #2 trolley 
line, which has since been replaced by a Bee-line Bus route. One part of 
Yonkers that is sometimes overlooked is Nepera Park. This is a small section 
at the northern part of Nepperhan Avenue on the Hastings-on-Hudson border. 
Nepperhan Avenue in Nepera Park is also a major shopping district for the 
area. Southeast Yonkers is mostly Irish-American (many of the Irish being 
native born) and Italian-American. Many of the businesses and type of architecture 
in southeast Yonkers bear a greater resemblance to certain parts of the 
Bronx, Brooklyn, Queens, or Staten Island than to points north. This is 
not surprising as southeastern Yonkers is largely within walking distance 
of the Riverdale, Woodlawn, and Wakefield sections of the Bronx. Many residents 
regard eastern McLean Avenue, home to a vibrant Irish community shared 
with the Woodlawn section of the Bronx, to be the true hub of Yonkers. 
Similarly, a portion of Midland Avenue in the Dunwoodie section has been 
called the "Little Italy" of Yonkers. Landmarks of southeastern Yonkers 
include the Cross County Shopping Center, Yonkers Raceway, and St. Joseph's 
Seminary in the Dunwoodie neighborhood, which was visited by Pope John 
Paul II in October 1995 and later by Pope Benedict XVI in April 2008. Getty 
Square, Yonkers's downtown, is the civic center and central business district 
of the city. Much of Southwest Yonkers grew densely along the multiple 
railroad and trolley (now bus) lines along South Broadway and in Getty 
Square, connecting to New York City. Clusters of apartment buildings surrounded 
the stations of the Yonkers branch of the New York and Putnam Railroad 
and the Third Avenue Railway trolley lines, and these buildings still remain 
although now served by the Bee-Line Bus System; The railroad companies 
themselves built neighborhoods of mixed housing types ranging from apartment 
buildings to large mansions in areas like Park Hill wherein the railroad 
also built a funicular to connect it with the train station in the valley. 
This traditionally African-American and white area has seen a tremendous 
influx of immigrants from Mexico, Central America, the Caribbean, South 
Asia, and the Middle East. Off South Broadway and Yonkers Avenue one can 
find residential neighborhoods, such as Lowerre, Nodine Hill, Park Hill, 
and Hudson Park (off the Hudson River) with a mix of building styles ranging 
from dense clusters of apartment buildings, blocks of retail with apartments 
above, multifamily row houses, and detached single-family homes.[21] Other 
neighborhoods of these types, although with a larger number of detached 
houses, are Ludlow Park, Hudson Park and Van Cortlandt Crest, off Riverdale 
Avenue, right over the Riverdale border - the former alongside the Hudson 
River. The area is also home to significant historical and educational 
institutions including the historic Philipse Manor Hall (a New York State 
Historic Site that houses one of three papier mache ceilings in the United 
States), The Science Barge, Beczak Environmental Education Center, and 
a 2003 Yonkers Public Library.[22] Many residents are of African, Caribbean, 
Italian, or Mexican descent while an influx those from other cultural backgrounds 
has continued to shape a culturally diverse community. Some neighborhoods 
right on the Riverdale border are increasingly becoming home to Orthodox 
Jews. The revitalization of the Getty Square area has helped to nurture 
growth for Southwest Yonkers. In the early 2000s several new luxury apartment 
buildings, such as 66 Main, were built along the Hudson. There is also 
a new "Sculpture Meadow on the Hudson," renovation of a Victorian-era pier, 
and a new public library housed in the remodeled Otis elevator factory. 
Peter Kelly's award-winning fine dining restaurant X20 - Xaviars on Hudson 
is located at the renovated pier with much success.[23][24] There are new 
proposals along with the current projects which are intended to revitalize 
downtown Yonkers. Yonkers is governed via a mayor-council system. The Yonkers 
City Council consists of seven members, six each elected from one of six 
districts, as well as a Council President to preside over the council. 
The mayor and city council president are elected in a citywide vote. The 
current mayor is Democrat Mike Spano and the Council President is Liam 
McLaughlin. Yonkers is typically a Democratic stronghold just like the 
rest of Westchester County and most of New York state on the national level. 
In 1992, Yonkers voted for George H. W. Bush over Bill Clinton and Ross 
Perot for president, but has voted solidly Democratic ever since. At a 
local level, recent mayors of Yonkers have included Republicans Phil Amicone 
and John Spencer, while the Yonkers City Council has mostly been controlled 
by Republicans. In the State Assembly, Yonkers is represented by Democrats 
J. Gary Pretlow and Shelley Mayer, and in the New York State Senate, by 
Democrats Andrea Stewart-Cousins and George Latimer. At the federal level, 
Democratic representative Eliot Engel represents the city. Public schools 
in Yonkers are operated by Yonkers Public Schools. Sarah Lawrence College, 
which gives its address as Bronxville/Yonkers,[25] is actually located 
in Yonkers.[26] Westchester Community College operates a number of extension 
centers in Yonkers, with the largest one at the Cross County Shopping Center.[27] 
Libraries are operated by the Yonkers Public Library. The Japanese School 
of New York was located in Yonkers for one year; on August 18, 1991 the 
school moved to Yonkers from Queens, New York City and on September 1, 
1992 classes began at its current location in Greenwich, Connecticut.[28] 
St. Peter's Catholic Elementary School at 204 Hawthorne Avenue, founded 
by the Sisters of Charity, celebrated its 100th anniversary in September 
2011 Academy for Jewish Religion, a rabbinical and cantorial school, is 
located in the Getty Square neighborhood of Yonkers. Saint Vladimir's Orthodox 
Theological Seminary is located in Crestwood. Yonkers has the eleventh-highest 
rate of public transit ridership among cities in the United States, and 
27% of Yonkers households do not own a car.[29] Bus service in Yonkers 
is provided by Westchester County Bee-Line Bus System, the second-largest 
bus system in New York State, along with some MTA Bus Company express routes 
to Manhattan. Yonkers is the top origin and destination for the Bee-Line 
Bus service area, including Westchester and the northern Bronx, with the 
Getty Square intermodal hub seeing passenger levels in the millions annually.[30] 
Yonkers is served by two heavy-rail commuter lines. Hudson Line Metro-North 
Railroad stations providing commuter service to New York City: Ludlow, 
Yonkers, Glenwood and Greystone. The Yonkers station is also served by 
Amtrak. Several Harlem Line stations are on or very near the city's eastern 
border. These include Wakefield, Mt. Vernon West, Fleetwood, Bronxville, 
Tuckahoe and Crestwood. A third commuter line dating from the late 19th 
century, the New York and Putnam Railroad, was shut down in phases during 
the mid-to-late 20th century. New York Water Taxi formerly operated a ferry 
service from downtown Yonkers to Manhattan's Financial District, but it 
ceased in December 2009.[31] Major limited-access roads in Yonkers include 
Interstate 87 (the New York State Thruway), the Saw Mill, Bronx River, 
Sprain Brook and Cross County parkways. US 9, NY 9A and 100 are important 
surface streets. The main line of the former New York and Putnam Railroad 
running through the middle of Yonkers has been converted into a paved walking 
and bicycling path, called the South County Trailway. It runs north-south 
in Yonkers from the Hastings-on-Hudson border in the north to the Bronx 
border in the south at Van Cortlandt Park where it is unpaved as of 2014[update] 
and is referred to as the Putnam Trail. The historic Croton Aqueduct tunnel 
has a hard-packed dirt trail, called the Old Croton Aqueduct Trailway, 
running above it for most of its length in Yonkers, with a few on-street 
routes on the edge of the Getty Square neighborhood. The city of Yonkers 
is protected by 459 firefighters of the city of Yonkers Fire Department 
(YFD), under the command of a Fire Commissioner and 3 Deputy Chiefs. Founded 
in 1896, the YFD operates out of 11 Fire Stations, located throughout the 
city in 2 Battalions, under the command of 1 Assistant Chief per shift.[32] 
The Yonkers Fire Department also operates a fire apparatus fleet of 10 
Engines, 6 Ladders, 1 Squad, 1 Rescue, 1 Fireboat, 1 Air Cascade Unit, 
1 USAR (Urban Search And Rescue)Collapse Unit, 1 Foam Unit, 1 Haz-Mat Unit, 
and numerous other special, support, and reserve units. The YFD responds 
to approximately 16,000 emergency calls annually.[33] Yonkers Welcome Sign 
Yonkers Saint Patrick's Day Parade 2010 Fountains at Westchester's Ridge 
Hill The Yonkers Metro-North Station The Saw Mill River in Getty Square 
Westbound McClean Avenue at ParkHill Avenue Eastbound Cross County Parkway 
