The York Revolution is an American professional baseball team based in 
York, Pennsylvania. It is a member of the Freedom Division of the Atlantic 
League of Professional Baseball, an independent league not affiliated with 
Major League Baseball. From the 2007 season to the present, the Revolution 
has played its home games at PeoplesBank Park, located in the Arch Street 
neighborhood. The team has won the league championship twice, most recently 
over the Long Island Ducks on October 1, 2011.[1] Before the Revolution's 
inaugural season, baseball fans in York had waited 38 years for the return 
of the sport since the York White Roses folded after the 1969 season. In 
2006, Yorkers chose the name "Revolution" in a team-sponsored fan ballot.[2] 
The name originally referred to the city's colonial heritage, especially 
because the Continental Congress passed the Articles of Confederation in 
York during the Revolutionary War. At the time of the American Revolution, 
York was one of the first capitals of the United States.[3] In 2012, the 
Revolution unveiled a new brand to emphasize York's more recent contributions 
to the Industrial Revolution with a secondary emphasis on patriotism. The 
region is home to industrial manufacturers such as Harley-Davidson, Stauffer's, 
and York International/Johnson Controls.[4] Many Yorkers also see the Revolution 
name as a symbol of the city's renaissance efforts.[5] The York White Roses, 
also known as the York Pirates in their last two seasons of existence, 
played from 1884 to 1969. The White Roses were bitter rivals of the Red 
Roses of the nearby city of Lancaster. Both teams were named after the 
two factions of England's historic Wars of the Roses. York tried for ten 
years to bring professional baseball back to the city. The process looked 
promising in 2003, until politics halted the project. The new baseball 
stadium was to be located at Small Athletic Field, on York City School 
District property, but the district's board voted negatively as they did 
not believe the ballpark would be the best use of district money and land. 
For three years, political and financial discussions continued to delay 
the project. A new site for the stadium was agreed upon in the Arch Street 
neighborhood, with all of the pieces falling into place. Other sites that 
were considered but did not come to fruition were Hoffman Field and the 
Ohio Blenders of PA, Inc. In April 2006, the Atlantic League of Professional 
Baseball formally announced an expansion team for the city of York.[6] 
One of the prominent members of the team's ownership group is Brooks Robinson, 
who played with the York White Roses and later with the Baltimore Orioles 
from 1955 to 1977. A statue of Robinson was erected in the area outside 
the stadium entrance and called Brooks Robinson Plaza in his honor.[7] 
The Revolution's inaugural season saw the team finish 3rd in the South 
Division with a record of 58–68. Their fortunes changed quickly, however, 
with 2008 bringing a 1st-place finish in the newly named Freedom Division 
and the franchise's first trip to the playoffs. The Revs were ousted early 
in the 2008 playoffs, but were back with a vengeance in 2010 when they 
won the Atlantic League Championship, the first professional baseball title 
the city had won since the 1969 York Pirates of the Eastern League.[8] 
The Revs took home the trophy again in 2011, winning back-to-back championships 
and becoming just the second team in league history to accomplish the feat. 
They returned to the playoffs for a third straight season in 2012, but 
lost in the opening round. In the 2009 preseason, the Revolution joined 
the two other Atlantic League teams in holding their spring training at 
home instead of the traditional site in Lakeland, Florida. The respective 
ownership groups of the three teams came to this decision so as to cut 
costs, citing the 2008 economic recession. On March 24, 2014, the Revolution 
became the first professional baseball team to accept Bitcoins as a form 
of payment for ticket purchases.[9] The Revolution hosted the 2011 Atlantic 
League All-Star Game at PeoplesBank Park on July 14, 2011. They had 7 players 
named to the All-Star team in addition to manager Andy Etchenbarren, who 
skippered the Freedom Division. In front of a sellout crowd, two of those 
Revolution players, Corey Thurman and Val Majewski, helped to lead the 
Freedom Division to a 7–0 shutout over the Liberty Division. Thurman started 
the game, throwing two shutout innings and Majewski hit a solo homerun 
over the right field wall to start the scoring. Michael Hernandez of the 
Somerset Patriots ended up taking home the game’s MVP award with a solo 
blast of his own and an RBI triple in the 7th inning.[10] Prior to the 
game, Val Majewski participated in the homerun derby and was a member of 
the winning team. The first pitch of the All-Star Game was thrown out by 
former Dover High School football player and current Green Bay Packer John 
Kuhn.[11] From 2007 to 2010, the York Revolution's colors were navy blue, 
red, white, brass, and silver. The original brand focused exclusively on 
symbols such as the United States flag and the bald eagle. The team re-branded 
for the 2011 season to the look used today. The current team colors of 
the York Revolution are navy blue, yellow, white, and silver. The "Revolution" 
wordmark colored white in an industrial script centered on a navy blue 
background. The word "York" is featured above in white with a baseball 
standing in for the letter "O". The entire wordmark is outlined in silver. 
Centered above the wordmark is a bald eagle holding a baseball bat. The 
York Revolution wear caps produced by OC Sports and uniforms by New Balance. 
The caps are navy blue throughout with a stylized white "Y" topped with 
an eagle's head clutching a baseball. The entire cap logo is outlined in 
silver. The Revolution wordmark is centered on the back, lower edge of 
the cap. There is also an all yellow hat featuring the York "Y" being grasped 
by an eagle talon. The home jerseys are white with navy blue and yellow 
paneling down the sides. They feature a navy blue cursive serif wordmark 
with a yellow outline that pays tribute to the Baltimore Orioles script. 
The away jersey is gray with navy blue and yellow paneling down the sides. 
Across the chest is the cursive "York" wordmark in navy blue outlined in 
yellow with a traditional underscore. The team also sports a third alternate 
jersey, which has changed numerous times over the years. The South Central 
Pennsylvania cities of Lancaster and York have a historical rivalry in 
all sporting events from the high-school level to the professional. Since 
both cities are named after the English cities of Lancaster and York, the 
former Pennsylvania baseball teams were named for the opposing sides of 
the Wars of the Roses. As a metaphor, "War of the Roses" describes the 
intense baseball matches fought between the Lancaster Red Roses and the 
York White Roses. With the addition of York to the Atlantic League, the 
Barnstormers continue the Red Roses' tradition as they battle the York 
Revolution for lower Susquehanna supremacy. The "War of the Roses" was 
rekindled with the sound of notional cannon-fire at the start of the 2007 
Atlantic League season in Wrightsville, a borough located on the Susquehanna 
River, the natural boundary between Lancaster and York counties. The winner 
of the War of the Roses is presented with the Community Cup, while the 
defeated team is obligated to sing the ballpark classic "Take Me Out to 
the Ball Game" and plant a rose garden at the opponent's ballpark with 
their representative color: red for Lancaster, white for York. The first 
Community Cup was championed by the Barnstormers in the 2007 season, though 
the Revolution avenged them by winning it in 2008.[12] The clubs also competed 
in the Route 30 Showdown in 2009–2011, an annual cross-county doubleheader 
inadvertently created at the conclusion of the 2008 season by a rain-delay.[13] 
In 2013, the team started the York Revolution Community Fund through the 
York County Community Foundation. The team raises funds through jersey 
auctions, memorabilia sales, 50/50 raffles, and the sale of other items 
like the Revs Kitchen cookbook, which sees Revolution players, coaches, 
and staff sharing their favorite recipes. The money raised by the fund 
is then given back to the community in the form of grants to local non-profit 
groups who provide services directly to York County.[15] The Revolution 
benefit the Big Brothers Big Sisters youth mentoring organization annually 
by wearing purple jerseys that are auctioned off immediately following 
the Purple Jersey Night game.[16] Additionally, the team also partnered 
with Columbia Gas to donate $50 to the York Red Cross for each run scored 
by a Revolution player.[17] The official broadcast home of the York Revolution 
is WOYK 1350 AM, with Darrell Henry as the "Voice of the Revolution." Prior 
to the 2010 season, games were heard on WSBA 910 AM. While Revolution games 
are not broadcast on television, each game is streamed live via the "York 
Revs TV" YouTube Channel.[18] The York Revolution's official mascot is 
an anthropomorphic, blue creature named DownTown. He wears the team's home 
jersey, the primary cap worn backwards, with blue and white sneakers. DownTown 
debuted on March 31, 2007 at the "Mascot: The Musical" production at the 
DreamWrights Theater. His full name is DownTown Yorkie, and is the result 
of a sponsorship deal with Downtown Inc, a partnership of community-minded 
companies that work to improve and celebrate downtown York.[19][20] The 
mascot was designed by the Raymond Entertainment Group, which also produces 
the Phillie Phanatic's costume. DownTown has a cousin named SmallTown, 
who will occasionally turn up at games. He debuted in 2009 and wears the 
number 1/2.[citation needed]The Revolution also host a character named 
Cannonball Charlie, who fires a cannon after each home run or home game 
victory by the team. He wears the uniform of a period Continental Army 
soldier.[21] The following players were named to the Atlantic League All-Star 
team in each particular season. An asterisk (*) indicates the player participated 
in the home run derby. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 
Player of the Year Manager of the Year Baseball America All-Independent 
Team These are some of the notable players who made it to the majors after 
playing in York. The years in parentheses indicate when they were with 
the Revs. Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches Disabled 
list ‡ Inactive list § Suspended list Roster updated March 29, 2016 Transactions 
