Yosh Kawano (born June 4, 1921) was the longtime clubhouse manager for 
the Chicago Cubs who retired in 2008 and was known for his trademark white 
fishing hat. Kawano's long service and dedication to the team have made 
him a part of Chicago Cubs team lore. Kawano is honored in the Cubs Walk 
of Fame, a series of banners hanging in the concourse of Wrigley Field. 
(Kawano also had a plaque in the original Walk of Fame, a series of plaques 
embedded in the concrete walkway outside the main entrance to Wrigley Field 
at the corner of Clark and Addison Streets in Chicago.[1]) Reportedly, 
the contract for the sale of the Cubs from the Wrigley family to the Chicago 
Tribune in 1981 included a clause to guarantee Kawano a job for life with 
the Cubs. Former Cubs player and enshrined member of the Baseball Hall 
of Fame Ryne Sandberg has suggested that if the Cubs were ever to change 
the name of Wrigley Field, that the ballpark should be named Yosh Kawano 
Field.[2] Sandberg also thanked Kawano in his Hall of Fame induction speech.[3] 
On June 16, 2008, Kawano donated his trademark fishing hat to the Baseball 
Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, New York.[4] On Thursday, June 26, 2008, it 
was announced that Yosh Kawano would be retiring at the conclusion of the 
2008 season. Kawano joined Cubs' Hall of Famer Billy Williams as guest 
conductor for "Take Me Out To the Ballgame" during the 7th inning stretch 
of the Cubs-Orioles game on June 26, 2008, a game which the Cubs lost 11-4 
to the Baltimore Orioles. On July 14, 2009, the Chicago Sun-Times reported 
that two weeks earlier security guards had ejected Kawano from Wrigley 
Field. The action was allegedly taken to protect Kawano, who was visiting 
friends there when he was escorted from the park. According to the Sun-Times: 
"Cubs executives did not know of the incident and said they will contact 
Kawano directly 'to let Yosh know he is always welcome,' senior vice president 
Michael Lufrano said."[5] According to the June 3rd, 1943, issue of The 
Sporting News, Kawano's first baseball job was as batboy for the Chicago 
White Sox during their California spring training that season. This assignment 
brought him reprieve from an internment camp for Japanese citizens. Kawano 
had been interned at the Poston War Relocation Center in Arizona.[6] His 
brother, Nobu Kawano, was the equipment manager for the Los Angeles Dodgers 
