Yu Darvish (Japanese: ダルビッシュ 有, Hepburn: Darubisshu Yū?, born 16 August 
1986)[1] is a Japanese starting pitcher for the Texas Rangers of Major 
League Baseball (MLB). Darvish pitched in the 2008 Beijing Olympics as 
well as the 2009 World Baseball Classic as a member of the Japanese national 
team.[2] He was considered by many to be the best pitcher in Japanese professional 
baseball prior to his arrival in Major League Baseball in 2012.[3] In his 
first MLB season, Darvish finished third in the American League (AL) Rookie 
of the Year balloting. The next season, he finished second in the AL Cy 
Young Award vote as he led the Major Leagues in strikeouts with 277 and 
finished fourth in the AL in earned run average (ERA) at 2.83. On 6 April 
2014, Darvish reached the 500 strikeout mark in fewer innings pitched than 
any starting pitcher in MLB history. Darvish was born Sefat Farid Yu Darvish 
(ダルビッシュ・セファット・ファリード・有?) in Habikino, Osaka, to an Iranian father, Farsad 
Darvishsefat, and a Japanese mother, Ikuyo. Darvish knows some words in 
Farsi but does not speak it.[4] His parents met at Eckerd College, a liberal 
arts school in St. Petersburg, Florida, where his father played for the 
college soccer team (Also internationally). [5][6] His grandfather owned 
a travel agency in Iran, and decided to send his son Farsad to the United 
States in 1977 to attend high school in Berkshire County, Massachusetts, 
where he also raced competitively in motocross. Yu Darvish began playing 
baseball in second grade and led his team to the quarter-finals of the 
national tournament as well as a third-place finish in the international 
tournament as a member of the Habikino Boys. He was scouted by over 50 
high schools while in junior high. He opted to attend Tohoku High School 
in northern Sendai, a noted baseball powerhouse that produced players such 
as former Seattle Mariners and Yokohama BayStars closer Kazuhiro Sasaki 
and former Arizona Diamondbacks reliever Takashi Saito. Darvish became 
Tohoku High's ace pitcher by the fall of his first year (the equivalent 
of tenth grade in the United States) and led his team to four straight 
appearances in national tournaments held at Koshien Stadium in his junior 
and senior years, twice in the National High School Baseball Invitational 
Tournament held in the spring and twice in the National High School Baseball 
Championship in the summer. Darvish led his team to the finals of the 85th 
National High School Baseball Championship in the summer of 2003, but gave 
up four runs to Joso Gakuin High School (whose No. 3 hitter, second baseman 
Katsuhiko Saka, currently plays for the Hanshin Tigers), the Ibaraki champions, 
in a complete game loss. Darvish attracted national attention when he pitched 
a no-hitter against Kumamoto Technical High School in the first round of 
the 76th National High School Baseball Invitational Tournament as a senior 
on 26 March 2004.[7] Though the team lost in the quarter-finals despite 
stellar outings by Darvish and sidearmer Kenji Makabe (currently with Honda 
Motor Company's industrial league team), many saw Darvish as the best high 
school pitcher in the country by that time. He pitched 12 games and put 
up a 7–3 record with 87 strikeouts in 92 innings pitched and a 1.47 ERA 
in his four national tournament appearances, and posted a 1.10 ERA for 
his high school career, striking out 375 in 332⅓ innings (67 appearances). 
Darvish was scouted extensively by Major League teams, such as the then 
Anaheim Angels and Atlanta Braves, even while in junior high. As he entered 
his senior year of high school, the Angels, Los Angeles Dodgers and New 
York Mets had all expressed interest in signing him,[8] but Darvish's intent 
remained to play for a Japanese professional team instead. Darvish was 
considered one of the best high school pitchers in the 2004 NPB amateur 
draft along with Yokohama Senior High School right-hander Hideaki Wakui 
(later picked by the Seibu Lions) and Akita Municipal Akita Commercial 
High School right-hander Tsuyoshi Sato (Hiroshima Toyo Carp). While the 
Fighters, Carp, Chunichi Dragons, Fukuoka Daiei Hawks and Orix BlueWave 
all considered selecting Darvish with their first-round pick in the final 
months, the Fighters were one of the few teams that chose not to forgo 
the first round in exchange for signing a college or industrial league 
player prior to the draft. This enabled them to land Darvish with their 
first-round pick in the 17 November draft,[9] signing him to a base salary 
of 15 million yen, a signing bonus of 100 million yen and additional performance-based 
incentives (the equivalent of what a first-round college or industrial 
league player would normally receive) on 17 December. Darvish received 
further publicity when he was caught smoking in a pachinko parlor on an 
off-day during his first Spring training in 2005, despite not being old 
enough to legally smoke nor to gamble at the time. The incident prompted 
his high school to suspend him, and the Fighters to place him under probation 
for an indefinite period and order him to participate in community service.[10] 
Despite his suspension, Darvish made his professional debut later that 
season, taking the mound in an interleague game against the Carp on 15 
June. Though he gave up back-to-back solo home runs in the ninth, he pitched 
8+ innings on those two runs alone and earned the win,[11] becoming the 
12th pitcher in NPB history to earn a win in one's professional debut as 
a rookie straight out of high school. He recorded his first complete game 
win on 6 August against the Lions and his first complete game shutout on 
18 September, holding the Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles to just two hits 
and becoming only the 14th pitcher in NPB history to throw a complete game 
shutout as a rookie out of high school. He finished the season with a 5-5 
record in 14 starts, throwing 94⅓ innings with an ERA of 3.53. Darvish 
had a breakout year in 2006, compiling a 12–5 record with 115 strikeouts 
and a 2.89 ERA.[12][13] In particular, he went 10–0 after 30 May, playing 
a leading role in the Fighters' first Pacific League title since 1981 (his 
win streak lasted until 14 April of the following season, when it reached 
12–0) and contributing to their first championship since 1961 in the Japan 
Series over the Dragons. Darvish was chosen to take the hill for the first 
game of each of the Pacific League playoffs, Japan Series, and the 2006 
Asia Series (played between the champions of Japan, China, Taiwan, and 
South Korea at the end of the season). Darvish, then 20 years old, became 
the first pitcher to start a Japan Series game since 1987 while under the 
age of 21, and only the fifth pitcher in NPB history to win a Japan Series 
game at that age with his win in Game 5 of the series. He also won the 
Asia Series Most Valuable Player award. Darvish was named the Fighters' 
starter for their 2007 season opener, becoming only the fourth pitcher 
in franchise history (including the Fighters' years as the Senators and 
Flyers) to start a season opener within three years of graduating high 
school (the other three pitchers all started season openers as rookies). 
He struck out 14 over nine innings in a no-decision in his second start 
against the Lions on 30 March (the game ended a 2–2 tie in extra innings) 
and 14 again in a complete game win in his next start against the Fukuoka 
SoftBank Hawks on 7 April, becoming only the second pitcher in Japanese 
professional baseball history to strike out 14 or more batters in two consecutive 
starts. Darvish went on to post a 15–5 record with a 1.82 ERA (falling 
just 0.003 points short of the league lead, which went to Chiba Lotte Marines 
left-hander Yoshihisa Naruse) for the year, limiting hitters to a .174 
batting average against and leading the league with 210 strikeouts.[14] 
He led the Fighters to their second consecutive league title, winning both 
of his starts in the second round of the Climax Series (playoffs) against 
the Marines.[15][16] Darvish took the mound in Game 1 of the Japan Series 
that followed on 27 October against the Dragons for the second straight 
year, pitching a 13-strikeout, complete game win in an intense pitchers' 
duel with then-Dragons ace Kenshin Kawakami (currently with the Atlanta 
Braves) and becoming only the third pitcher in Japan Series history to 
strike out 13 or more batters in a single game.[17] With the Fighters down 
3–1 and facing elimination, Darvish started Game 5 on 1 November and held 
the Dragons to one run over seven innings while striking out 11. However, 
the Fighters had no answer for opposing right-hander Daisuke Yamai and 
closer Hitoki Iwase, failing to get a single man on base and allowing the 
first perfect game in Japan Series history. (However, the game was not 
an official perfect game according to NPB regulations, which state that 
a perfect game must be thrown by a single pitcher.) The Dragons won the 
game 1–0, charging Darvish with the loss and becoming Japan Series champions.[18] 
The 24 strikeouts that Darvish totaled in his two starts were the second-highest 
by any single pitcher in series history (and the highest in a series that 
went only five games). Darvish was presented with both his first career 
Eiji Sawamura Award[19] (being the first to meet or exceed guidelines for 
the award in all seven categories in 14 years) and his first Most Valuable 
Player award following the season. He also won the Golden Glove and Best 
Nine awards that year. Darvish made his national team debut in the 2007 
Asian Baseball Championship (which also functioned as the Asian qualifying 
tournament for the 2008 Beijing Olympics) against Chinese Taipei on 3 December 
2007. Because Japanese law requires that a person holding dual citizenship 
choose a single nationality before their twenty-second birthday, Darvish 
had chosen to retain his Japanese citizenship so that he could play for 
the national team in the Olympics.[20] On 22 December, Darvish re-signed 
with the Nippon Ham Fighters for 200 million yen plus payment at piece 
rates, up 128 million yen from 2006. At 21 years old, Darvish became the 
youngest player in Japanese baseball history to reach the 200 million yen 
mark. In 2008, Darvish was named the Fighters' starter in the season opener 
for the second consecutive year, pitching a complete game shutout in that 
very game (the Fighters won 1-0). Even as his team struggled in the opening 
months of the season, Darvish continued to rack up wins at a pace that 
exceeded his own in the previous season. As the year went on, he and Eagles 
ace Hisashi Iwakuma emerged as the league leaders in both wins and ERA. 
On 10 April, in their only match-up of the season, neither gave up a single 
hit through the first five innings. Iwakuma went the distance, throwing 
just 100 pitches and giving up just one run on three hits; yet Darvish 
topped this, throwing another complete game shutout on three hits and just 
95 pitches in one of the best pitchers' duels of the season.[21] While 
he did not pitch the way he had hoped in the Olympics, Darvish promptly 
put up a perfect 5–0 record with a 1.29 ERA and two complete games in the 
five starts upon returning to the Fighters, leading them to a playoff berth 
in a heated race against the Marines. While the Fighters failed to make 
the Japan Series, Darvish took the mound in two playoff games, giving up 
one run in a complete game win in one and pitching a complete game shutout 
in another. Although he lost out to Iwakuma (who put up an astonishing 
21–4 record) in wins, he finished second in all three Triple Crown categories, 
finishing the season with a 16–4 record, 1.88 ERA[22] and 208 strikeouts. 
(It was his second straight year putting up an ERA under 2.00, throwing 
more than 200 innings, and striking out over 200 hitters despite missing 
time due to the Olympics.) Regardless, the Sawamura Award was presented 
to Iwakuma, and Darvish became just the second pitcher to clear the guidelines 
in all seven categories to not win the award (Suguru Egawa was the first 
in 1982). Darvish took the mound in Game 1 of the first round of the Climax 
Series against the Orix Buffaloes on 11 October, allowing nine hits but 
holding the team to one run while striking out 14 in a 4–1 complete game 
win.[23] He started Game 2 of the second round against the Saitama Seibu 
Lions on 18 October and pitched a complete game shutout in a 5–0 win,[24] 
but the Fighters lost the series 4–2 and fell short of their third straight 
appearance in the Japan Series. On 1 December, Darvish re-signed with the 
Nippon Ham Fighters for 270 million yen plus payment at piece rates, up 
70 million yen from 2007. Darvish started the Fighters' season opener for 
the third straight year in 2009, taking the mound in the game against the 
Eagles on 3 April in much-hyped match-up with the reigning Sawamura Award 
winner and World Baseball Classic teammate Hisashi Iwakuma. Darvish gave 
up three runs in the first inning but insisted on going the distance, giving 
up eight hits but allowing no runs from the second inning onward in a 121-pitch, 
complete game loss (Iwakuma held the Fighters to one run over six innings 
and was credited with the win).[25] He had a stellar outing on 24 April, 
striking out six straight and 11 overall en route to a four-hit, complete 
game shutout (his first of the season) over the Buffaloes,[26] following 
it up by holding the Lions to one run and striking out 11 over nine innings 
in a no-decision in a match-up with fellow 22-year-old ace Hideaki Wakui 
on 1 May (the Fighters lost 2-1 in extra innings). On 22 August, Darvish 
was taken off the active roster for the first time in his career due to 
injury. The Fighters classified it as "shoulder fatigue", and the deactivation 
came after a career-worst start against the Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks, in 
which he went eight innings, but gave up six earned runs on ten hits in 
a losing effort. He was reactivated on 13 September after recovering at 
farm team, but in his second start back a week later against the Orix Buffaloes, 
Darvish gave up a career-high seven walks in five innings, even though 
he only gave up two runs. Three days later he was deactivated again due 
to a combination of discomfort in his shoulder and a sore back. Darvish 
was activated again just in time for the 2009 Japan Series against the 
Central League champion Yomiuri Giants, and he pitched Game 2 on 1 November. 
He went six innings, giving up two runs on seven hits, and also striking 
out 7 Giants. He became the winning pitcher, and the team won 4–2. The 
Yomiuri Giants would go on and win the championship series 4 games to 1. 
After the Japan Series, It was revealed that Yu had stress fracture of 
the right hand forefinger. Darvish said he first experienced pain after 
practice on 28 October but kept it to himself. Also, he was unable to fully 
use the lower part of his body due to hip pains. Darvish was presented 
his second Most Valuable Player and Best Nine awards at the end of the 
season. He became only the third player to have won 2 MVP awards in their 
first five years in the NPB, joining Kazuhisa Inao and Ichiro Suzuki. However, 
he lost out on his second Sawamura Award to Saitama Seibu Lions ace Hideaki 
Wakui. On 9 December, Darvish re-signed with the Nippon Ham Fighters for 
330 million yen, up 60 million yen from 2009. At 23, Darvish became the 
youngest player in Japanese baseball history to reach the 300 million yen 
mark, along with being the highest-paid pitcher in the Pacific League presently.[27] 
Darvish's 2010 season was another strong individual performance, but he 
struggled to win as many games due to the Fighters troubles. The Fighters 
finished 74-67,[28] but in fourth place. His opening day loss was reflective 
of his 2010 season; he pitched well but the team struggled. He began the 
2010 season losing to the Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks on 20 March. Darvish allowed 
two early unearned runs on his way to a complete game loss (5 runs allowed, 
3 earned runs) striking out 13.[29] The Fighters began the season with 
a 5-14-1 stretch that was put them with their worst winning percentage 
in five years.[30] They struggled in all phases of play, but Darvish continued 
to pitch well. Even at this low point, he was leading the league in strikeouts 
even as the rest of the rotation was 3-9.[30] Darvish struck out at least 
10 hitters in each of his first five starts.[31] Darvish's 2010 season 
also was noticeable because speculation increased about his potential move 
(or posting) to Major League Baseball. Darvish was interviewed by The Associated 
Press where he announced his plans to review his options at the end of 
the season. He noted, "Right now, I'm just focused on helping my team win 
this season ... Once the season is over, I'll consider my future."[32] 
The Associated Press noted that both his exposure to international play 
during the 2009 World Baseball Classic and recurring injuries both led 
him to consider leaving Japan. In addition to back problems he also missed 
a start in June with a sore right knee.[32] Despite the injuries and potential 
distractions, Darvish pitched well down the stretch. His last three starts 
were all complete games and he struck out 35 hitters in those 27 innings.[31] 
Darvish finished the season with only a 12–8 record, but with a 1.78 ERA.[33] 
He led the league with 10 complete games, 222 strikeouts, a 1.01 WHIP. 
This was Darvish's fourth consecutive sub 2.00 ERA. On 18 October 2010, 
Darvish posted on his blog that he would be returning to the Fighters for 
the 2011 season.[34] On 6 January 2011 Darvish agreed to a contract for 
the 2011 season that would make him the highest paid player in Japan.[35] 
His salary was 500 million Japanese Yen (which on 6 January converted to 
$6,065,490 US dollars).[36] The 2011 Nippon Professional Baseball season 
was delayed by the Tohoku earthquake. Controversy emerged over when baseball 
should resume. Commissioner Ryozo Kato was criticized for comparing the 
resumption to the return of Major League Baseball ten days after the 9/11 
terrorist attacks. Darvish was among the players who felt it was not appropriate 
to quickly return to baseball, "I am a baseball player and a human being 
as well. I cannot think about baseball alone as I normally do."[37] Darvish 
took part in efforts to raise funds for the relief efforts and personally 
donated 50,000,000 Yen (about $620,000 USD) to the Japanese Red Cross.[38] 
Eventually the teams agreed to play the full 144-game schedule, but the 
start of the season would be pushed back several weeks.[39] The season 
began on 12 April 2011 and Darvish started against the Saitama Seibu Lions. 
He struggled, allowing seven runs in seven innings and taking the loss.[40] 
This poor start would not reflect his overall performance. After that opening 
game, he would not allow more than three runs in any of his starts. Darvish 
would win his next eight starts and thirteen of his next fourteen decisions.[41] 
Darvish would finish with his strongest all-around season, winning 18 games 
and featuring a career-low 1.44 ERA. He also led the league with 28 starts, 
232 innings, 276 strikeouts and a 0.82 WHIP. He also featured remarkable 
control, walking only 36 batters.[42] Despite his accomplishments, Darvish 
was not recognized with the best pitcher in Japan honor, the Sawamura Award. 
Three of the five-member committee voted to recognize Tohoku Rakuten Golden 
Eagles right-hander Masahiro Tanaka. Selection committee chief Masayuki 
Dobashi explained, "ERA is the best stat to evaluate pitchers ... Tanaka's 
ERA was a little better than that of Darvish. Tanaka also had more complete 
games than Darvish."[43] Pitchers must qualify for the award by meeting 
seven criteria: 15 wins, a 2.50 ERA, 200 innings pitched, 10 complete games, 
150 strikeouts, 25 appearances and a .600 winning percentage. Both Tanaka 
and Darvish met all the criteria. Tanaka noted, "I only had better numbers 
than him (Darvish) ... As a pitcher, I'm nowhere near his caliber."[43] 
The Nippon Ham Fighters were eliminated in the first round of the Pacific 
League playoffs, losing both games to the Saitama Seibu Lions. Darvish 
started game one of the series, going seven innings and allowing only one 
run on four hits, while striking out nine. After Darvish departed, Seibu 
scored one run in the 9th inning to send the game to extra innings and 
added three more to win the game in the 11th inning.[44] After being eliminated, 
speculation again increased about Darvish being posted to Major League 
Baseball. His pending divorce allegedly complicated this situation. Speculation 
centered on his wife's potential claims to a share of a new contract with 
an American team.[45] Darvish was posted to Major League Baseball prior 
to the 2012 season,[47] and is currently represented by agents Don Nomura 
and Arn Tellem. He added confirmation of this posting on his blog.[48] 
MLB teams had until 14 December 2011 to submit a blind posting bid, and 
the Hokkaido Nippon Ham Fighters had until the 20th of that month to announce 
whether the highest bid would be accepted or rejected. Their announcement 
of acceptance of the highest bid, from the Texas Rangers, was made on 19 
December EST, at a reported $51.7 million. The Rangers then had 30 days 
to negotiate with Darvish, or he would return to Japan.[49] On 18 January, 
the Texas Rangers signed Darvish to a $60M dollar contract for six years 
with a player option to void the last year, fifteen minutes prior to a 
4:00pm CST deadline. Rangers CEO Nolan Ryan commented that Darvish had 
shown more control than he did at Darvish's age.[50] Darvish's first start 
in the Majors came on 9 April against the Seattle Mariners in Texas. His 
first MLB strikeout was of Dustin Ackley on a 2–2 80 mph curveball; the 
first MLB hit that he allowed was a single into left field by Ichiro Suzuki 
on a 2–2 96 mph fastball. He threw for 5 2⁄3 innings, giving up 8 hits, 
5 runs, and 4 walks, and striking out five, gaining his first MLB win in 
the process. When Alexi Ogando came to relieve him in the 6th, Darvish 
got a standing ovation from the crowd at Rangers Ballpark in Arlington.[51] 
Darvish's first start away from Rangers Ballpark in Arlington came on 14 
April against the Minnesota Twins at Target Field. He pitched for 5 2⁄3 
innings, allowing 9 hits, 4 walks, and 2 runs (one of which was unearned), 
while collecting 4 strikeouts. Despite the Rangers winning the game, it 
was a no-decision for Darvish. Instead, teammate Robbie Ross picked up 
the win.[52] On 24 April, in a game against the New York Yankees, Darvish 
pitched for 8 1⁄3 shutout innings, collecting 10 strikeouts, while allowing 
seven hits and two walks. He gave up a hit to Nick Swisher with one out 
in the 9th. Joe Nathan, the Rangers' closer, relieved him and induced a 
ground-ball double play to get the save and secure the third win for Darvish. 
As Nathan came in, Darvish received a deafening ovation from the crowd. 
This game also marked the seventh time in MLB history that the two starting 
pitchers were both Japanese, with Hiroki Kuroda on the mound for the Yankees. 
The game was also televised in Japan.[53] On 30 April, Darvish gave up 
his first MLB home run to Edwin Encarnación of the Toronto Blue Jays, in 
a game that Texas won 4–1. Darvish improved to 4–0, striking out nine and 
giving up only one run.[54] For his performances in April, Darvish was 
named the AL Rookie of the Month. Darvish went 4–0 with a 2.18 ERA and 
33 strikeouts. His first loss didn't come until 6 May, against the Cleveland 
Indians. On 20 June, in an interleague game against the San Diego Padres 
at Petco Park, Darvish got his first career MLB hit. In his first at-bat, 
he hit a bat-shattering single into shallow right field. He did not get 
to run the bases however, as Ian Kinsler hit a line shot to the second 
baseman, and Darvish was tagged off of the bag to complete the double play. 
He went 1-for-3 for the game. On 5 July 2012, the MLB announced that Yu 
Darvish for the American League and David Freese for the National League 
were the final two players to make the 2012 MLB All-Star Game rosters. 
Darvish had 10 wins and five losses with a 3.59 ERA when the MLB announced 
him as an All-Star. However, Darvish didn't get a chance to pitch in the 
game, watching from the dugout as his team lost 8–0.[55] On 2 April 2013, 
Darvish pitched a perfect game through eight 2/3 innings against the Houston 
Astros before giving up a single to Marwin González.[56] He threw 111 pitches, 
striking out 14 and walking none.[57] On 27 May, Darvish became the first 
player since Randy Johnson and Curt Schilling in 2002 to have 100 strikeouts 
by Memorial Day.[58] On 10 July 2013, Darvish was placed on the 15-day 
DL due to a strained trapezius and was replaced on the All-Star roster 
by Matt Moore. On 12 August 2013, he pitched a no-hitter through seven 
1/3 innings against the Houston Astros until giving up a home run to Carlos 
Corporán. Darvish struck out a career-high of 15 in that game and Texas 
won 2-1. By season's end, he compiled 277 strikeouts in just 209 2/3 innings. 
Additionally, he was fourth in the American League in with a 2.83 ERA, 
behind Aníbal Sánchez, Hisashi Iwakuma, and Bartolo Colón. Darvish placed 
second in the Cy Young voting to the Detroit Tigers' Max Scherzer. In his 
first start of the 2014 season, Darvish faced the Tampa Bay Rays on 6 April. 
He struck out David DeJesus and Wil Myers to start the game, notching his 
500th career strikeout. The two strikeouts gave Darvish 401 2⁄3 career 
IP in the Major Leagues, making him the fastest to reach 500 SO in terms 
of innings pitched. It topped Kerry Wood's previous record by three innings. 
The Rangers won the game 3–0 as Darvish pitched seven shutout innings and 
struck out six overall.[59][60][61] On 9 May, Darvish took a no-hitter 
in the seventh inning against the Boston Red Sox before giving up a single 
to David Ortiz.[62] The hit was initially ruled an error, thus allowing 
Darvish to take a no-hitter into the ninth before Ortiz recorded a single 
in that inning,[63] however Major League Baseball subsequently overruled 
the scoring decision, ending the no-hitter in the seventh. On 11 June 2014 
Darvish threw his first complete game shutout against the Miami Marlins. 
Darvish allowed 6 hits, 3 walks and struck out 10. [2] On 6 July 2014 Yu 
Darvish was elected to play the 2014 MLB All-Star Game. Darvish entered 
the All Star Game in the third inning to retire all three batters. During 
Spring training, Darvish began to experience soreness in his right triceps. 
He underwent an MRI the following day, eventually to reveal that his right 
elbow had a torn UCL, preventing Darvish from participating for the entire 
2015 baseball season.[64] He underwent Tommy John surgery on March 17, 
2015, performed by Dr. James Andrews.[65] Darvish began the 2016 season 
on the 15-day disabled list in an effort to continue recovery from the 
Tommy John surgery he had last year.[66] He returned on May 28 against 
the Pittsburgh Pirates, pitching 5 innings with 7 strikeouts and one run 
allowed on 3 hits as the Rangers went on to win 5-2. On June 13, 2016, 
he was placed on the 15-day disabled list due to neck and shoulder strains. 
On August 24, 2016, he hit his 1st career MLB home run in an away game 
against the Cincinnati Reds, the first home run by a Rangers pitcher since 
Bobby Witt. Named the ace of the Japanese national team by manager Senichi 
Hoshino in the 2008 Beijing Olympics,[67] Darvish took the hill in Japan's 
first game of the preliminary round against Cuba on 13 August, but was 
charged with the loss after giving up four runs in 4 innings.[68] The subpar 
outing caused Hoshino to lose faith in him and scratch Darvish from the 
semi-finals that he had penciled him in for, sending Darvish to the mound 
only in situations that would have no bearing on Japan's fate in the tournament. 
Darvish started the last game of the preliminary round against the United 
States on 20 August and was brought in to mop up after the U.S. had taken 
a decisive lead in the bronze medal match, finishing the tournament 0–1 
with a 5.14 ERA (albeit with 10 strikeouts in seven innings pitched). Darvish 
pitched in the 2009 World Baseball Classic as the de facto ace of the Japanese 
national team,[69] starting the opening game against China on 5 March. 
He pitched four innings, allowing one walk and no hits and striking out 
three as Japan beat China, 4–0. However, pitching in a Major League stadium 
for the first time in his career, he struggled in his second outing of 
the tournament against South Korea on 17 March, throwing five innings and 
giving up three runs (two earned) on four hits and a walk and ultimately 
being charged with the loss.[70] His first career save would follow six 
days later, when he pitched the final inning of the semi-finals against 
the United States, yielding no runs and a single and striking out two as 
Japan won 9–4.[71] Darvish came on in relief in the bottom of the ninth 
inning of the championship game against South Korea with Japan leading 
3–2. He struck out his first batter, walked the next two, struck out his 
next, and then gave up a tying two-out single before finishing the inning 
with another strikeout. However, Japan scored two runs in the top of the 
tenth inning to regain a 5–3 lead, and after giving up a leadoff walk in 
the bottom of the inning, Darvish retired the next three batters (striking 
out two of them) to clinch Japan's second consecutive tournament title.[72] 
In the WBC he finished at 2–1 with a 2.08 ERA and 20 strikeouts in 13 innings. 
He recorded a career-high 99 mph when he worked in relief at the WBC.[73] 
Darvish, along with Ichiro Suzuki and Daisuke Matsuzaka, chose not to play 
in the 2013 World Baseball Classic. While the Japanese team advanced to 
the semi-finals, they lost to upstart Puerto Rico 3-1, thus ending their 
two-time defending championship streak. Darvish is a right-handed pitcher 
who throws from a three-quarter arm slot in a drop-and-drive motion.[74] 
He has a large frame for a pitcher, listed at 6 ft 5 in and 220 lb. Darvish 
throws a four-seam fastball which averages 93–95 mph (tops out at 99 mph[75]),[76][77][78] 
as well as a hard slurve (slider) in the low 80s with a sharp break.[76][79][80] 
He complements these two with a wide repertoire of secondary pitches, including 
a two-seam fastball (also described as a shuuto),[81] a cutter, two curveballs, 
a splitter, and an occasional changeup.[82] Darvish has a "fast curve" 
and a "slow curve", the former averaging about 80 mph and the latter about 
71. The slow curve is almost exclusively used in no-strike and 1-strike 
counts, while the fast curve is mostly used in 2-strike counts.[83] Some 
professional scouts consider Darvish to have the best repertoire of quality 
pitches, including the best slider, in all of Major League Baseball.[76] 
Advance scouting on Darvish is made difficult by his tendency to change 
his most frequent pitch sequences over time.[84] While Darvish uses both 
the set, or "stretch" position and the windup, he has been noted for pitching 
exclusively from the stretch at times, even when there is no one on base.[85] 
While pitching from the windup is generally thought to add velocity to 
pitches, the set position allows pitchers more control over baserunners.[86] 
In Darvish's case the set position often is used as a way of keeping his 
delivery in sync and consistent.[85] Prior to the 2006 season Darvish's 
"go-to" pitch was a screwball, and he tends to rely more on his off-speed 
pitches than his fastball. After injuring his shoulder in an exhibition 
game start against the 2006 World Baseball Classic Japanese national team 
in February 2006, because of the strain the screwball had gradually been 
putting on his shoulder, he took the pitch out of his in-game repertoire 
and worked to develop his splitter until it became an equally effective 
pitch that would replace the screwball. He also has succeeded in increasing 
his fastball velocity from year to year. On 9 August 2007, Darvish acknowledged 
reports of a relationship with the Japanese actress, Saeko, in a post-game 
interview. He also announced that they were planning to get married, and 
that Saeko was pregnant with their first child. The couple married in November 
2007, in what Japanese tabloids reported was a shotgun wedding.[87] They 
have two sons, but divorced in 2012. Coincidentally, Darvish's divorce 
was finalized on the same day that he officially signed with the Texas 
Rangers.[88] Darvish established a humanitarian fund dedicated to the construction, 
installation, and maintenance of wells, well pumps, and rainwater storage 
facilities in developing countries called the "Yu Darvish Water Fund" in 
February 2007. He has announced plans to contribute to this fund by donating 
100,000 yen each time he notches a regular season win. The fund is managed 
by the Japan Water Forum. An entertainment company, Avex Group Holdings 
Inc. manages Darvish's non-baseball rights worldwide and Darvish has appeared 
in ads for many companies, including Seiko, Asahi Dry Black Beer and Pocari 
Sweat. Also, Darvish has appeared on the covers of Japanese men's fashion 
magazines, such as GQ, Men's Non-No, and Gainer. Darvish was selected as 
the "GQ Man of the Year" in the February 2012 Japan issue. On 19 January 
2016, Darvish's brother Sho was arrested after a lengthy investigation 
for gambling and running a betting ring. Darvish issued a statement through 
