Zachariah Davis "Zack" Wheat (May 23, 1888 – March 11, 1972), nicknamed 
"Buck",[1] was a Major League Baseball left fielder for Brooklyn in the 
National League. He was elected to the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 
1959. A consistent hitter throughout his 19-year career, he still holds 
many Dodger franchise records. His brother McKinley "Mack" Wheat also played 
in the major leagues, and the two were teammates in Brooklyn for five seasons.[2] 
Born in Hamilton, Missouri, the son of Basil and Julia Wheat. His father 
was of English descent and his mother was full-blooded Cherokee. Wheat 
began his professional baseball career in 1906 for Enterprise in the Kansas 
League, followed by Wichita in 1907, Shreveport Pirates of the Texas League 
in 1908, and finally, to round out his minor league career, he played for 
the Mobile Sea Gulls of the Southern Association in 1909.[3] It was during 
that 1909 season that the Brooklyn Superbas of the National League purchased 
Wheat for $1200,[3] and he made his Major League debut in September.[2] 
He batted with a corkscrew type of swing, and held his hands down near 
the end of the bat, unlike most hitters during his time, a time noted as 
the "Dead Ball Era". Even with his consistent high levels of hitting, he 
was also noted for his graceful and stylish defense.[4] What Lajoie was 
to infielders, Zach Wheat is to outfielders, the finest mechanical craftsman 
of them all... Wheat is the easiest, most graceful of outfielders with 
no close rivals. Wheat played his first full season in 1910. He played 
every game for the Superbas that season as the regular left fielder, leading 
the league in games played.[2] He batted .284 that season, the second-lowest 
average of his career, which led the team, and was among the league leaders 
in hits, doubles, and triples.[4] It was in 1911 that his reputation as 
a slugger began to take hold. Along with hitting .287, he finished eighth 
in the league with 13 triples, and slugged five home runs. In an era when 
players rarely hit double-digit home runs for a season, five was enough 
for people to take notice.[4] Wheat continued his steady and consistent 
climb up the batting charts in 1912, hitting .305, and finished the season 
among the league leaders in home runs and slugging percentage.[1] Over 
the next four seasons, he continued to be among the leaders of many offensive 
categories; such as home runs, batting average, slugging, hits, doubles, 
triples, and RBIs. It was during the 1912 season that Wheat married Daisy 
Kerr Forsman, and she became his default agent, encouraging him to hold 
out for a better contract each season. Players in his day signed one-year 
contracts before every season. Each time he held out, he received more 
money, the club not wanting to lose one of its best players and the team's 
most popular player.[4] This tactic of threatening to hold out served him 
well during throughout his career, including during the World War I era, 
when he raised and sold mules to the United States Army as pack animals. 
He claimed that he did so well, that he didn't need to play during the 
summer. The team, fearing that they might lose a great player during the 
prime of his career, would succumb to his demands every year.[4] In 1916, 
he topped off the string of seasons with a finish in the top ten in all 
the above categories, topping the league in total bases and slugging.[1] 
He also had a career-high hitting streak, which reached 29 games.[4] The 
Brooklyn Robins won the National League pennant that season. In the World 
Series, they faced the Boston Red Sox, which had the formidable pitching 
rotation of Ernie Shore, Dutch Leonard, Carl Mays, and Babe Ruth. The Red 
Sox won the series four games to one, holding the Robins to a .200 batting 
average, and Wheat to a paltry .211.[5] During the 1917 and 1918 seasons, 
Wheat hit well, but missed many games due to injuries. He had tiny feet, 
size 5, and this is believed to be the cause of the many nagging ankle 
injuries that caused to miss many games in his career.[4] He did, however, 
lead the league in batting average for the only time in his career with 
a .335 batting average, his highest average up to that point. Interestingly, 
for a player known as a slugger, and consistently in the top ten in most 
offensive categories including home runs, he hit zero that season, and 
just one the season prior.[1] Starting in 1919, Wheat returned to the league 
slugging leaders once again, as the baseball began to become livelier, 
proved by the offensive output by the likes of Ruth, and Rogers Hornsby. 
The Robins made their second World Series appearance in 1920, this time 
facing off against the Cleveland Indians. The Robins lost this series as 
well, 5 games to 2, although Wheat's hitting greatly improved this time 
around, batting .333.[6] Wheat's statistics climbed during this new live 
era of baseball, reaching double-digit home runs for the first time with 
14 in 1921, and again three more times in the next four years. Wheat hit 
.320 or higher every season from 1920 through 1925, topping out with .375 
in consecutive seasons. He failed to lead the league in hitting those two 
seasons, not getting enough at bats in 1923 to qualify, and Hornsby topped 
the league with .384,[7] and in 1924, his .375 finished a distant second 
to Hornsby's .424.[8] A subtle, but longstanding friction existed between 
Wheat and his manager, future Hall of Famer Wilbert Robinson. The friction 
reportedly stemmed from Robinson's belief that Wheat seemed to pursue the 
manager's job behind his back.[4] When owner Charles Ebbets died in 1925, 
new team president Ed McKeever reassigned Robinson into the front office 
and named Wheat as player-manager. Newspapers confirm that he managed the 
Dodgers for two weeks.[4] McKeever caught pneumonia at Ebbets' funeral, 
and died soon afterward, and Robinson quickly returned to the managers 
position. As it turned out, Wheat never again managed in the majors, much 
to his disappointment. To add insult to injury, Wheat's 1925 managerial 
stint never made it into the official records. In 1931, Steve McKeever, 
Ed's brother, hired Wheat as a coach, leading to widespread speculation 
that Zack was being groomed for the manager's spot, threatening Robinson's 
job for a second time in seven years, and he treated his former star as 
coldly as ever.[4] Wheat was signed by the Philadelphia Athletics after 
his release from Brooklyn in 1927. After the season, he was released again; 
this time he signed and played for the minor league Minneapolis Millers 
of the American Association. He played very little that season due to a 
heel injury, and retired from playing for good following the season.[3] 
He still holds the Dodger franchise records for hits, doubles, triples 
and total bases.[9] After Wheat retired from baseball, he moved back to 
his 160-acre (0.65 km2) farm in Polo, Missouri, until the Great Depression 
forced him to sell it in 1932.[4] He moved to Kansas City, Missouri, where 
he operated a bowling alley with Cotton Tierney.[4][10] He later became 
a police officer.[3] It was during his duties as an officer in 1936, that 
he was chasing a fleeing felon in his vehicle, when he crashed and nearly 
died. Wheat spent five months in hospital after the accident, and after 
he was discharged, he moved his family to Sunrise Beach, Missouri, a resort 
town on the Lake of the Ozarks, to recuperate. It was here that he opened 
a 46-acre (190,000 m2) hunting and fishing resort.[4] One of the grandest 
guys ever to wear a baseball uniform, one of the greatest batting teachers 
I have seen, one of the truest pals a man ever (had) and one of the kindliest 
men God ever created. Wheat was first voted into the Baseball Hall of Fame 
by the Veterans Committee in 1957, but could not be inducted, due to the 
fact that he had not been officially retired for the required 30 years. 
In 1959, the committee unanimously elected him.[4] In 1981, Lawrence Ritter 
and Donald Honig included him in their book The 100 Greatest Baseball Players 
of All Time. In 2006, the stretch of Route 13 that runs through Caldwell 
County, Missouri was named the Zach Wheat Memorial Highway.[11] Due to 
his Cherokee ancestry, Wheat was featured in "Baseball's League of Nations: 
A Tribute to Native Americans in Baseball", a 2008 exhibit at the Iroquois 
