Zoltan is a hand gesture in which a person has their hands stacked on top 
of each other, only touching at the tips of the thumbs, in order to form 
a letter "Z". Originally used in the 2000 stoner film Dude, Where's My 
Car?, the Zoltan hand gesture would become popular in 2012 with members 
of the Pittsburgh Pirates, as well as residents of Pittsburgh rallying 
around the team. During the film Dude, Where's My Car?, the two main characters, 
Jesse Montgomery III (Ashton Kutcher) and Chester Greenburg (Seann William 
Scott), run into a group of UFO cultists led by Zoltan! (Hal Sparks). Whenever 
the name Zoltan was said while they explained their plan to Jesse and Chester 
they would do the hand gesture. It is during this otherwise minor scene 
in the film that the Zoltan hand gesture is first used.[1] During the early 
part of the 2012 Major League Baseball season, the Pittsburgh Pirates were 
visiting the Atlanta Braves for a weekend series when the team was watching 
Dude, Where's My Car? in the visiting clubhouse at Turner Field. According 
to Pirates second baseman Neil Walker, the team thought that the Zoltan 
hand gesture was so bad that they decided to adopt it as a form of team 
bonding.[2] At the time, the Pirates had endured a major North American 
professional sports record 19 consecutive losing seasons which, fittingly, 
started after the Pirates lost to the Braves at Fulton County Stadium in 
Atlanta in Game 7 of the 1992 National League Championship Series when 
Francisco Cabrera cracked a bottom-of-the-9th-inning, two-out, two-run 
single that scored David Justice and Sid Bream. Soon, the team started 
using the Zoltan as a way for players to congratulate their teammates after 
an accomplishment such as a home run or a double play. Over time, Pirates 
fans noticed the players (in particular de facto team leader Andrew McCutchen) 
making the hand gesture and started doing it as well.[3] This led to merchandise 
sales of t-shirts with the Zoltan on the shirts. After a Twitter campaign 
to encourage the "real" Zoltan to appear at a game, Hal Sparks flew to 
Pittsburgh on July 25, 2012 to throw out the ceremonial first pitch, and 
was on hand to see the Pirates win 3-2 over his hometown team, the Chicago 
Cubs. Also there to support the team was Hal's girlfriend, Summer Soltis, 
whose family is from the area and are Pirates fans themselves.[4] Despite 
picking up a cult following in Pittsburgh and helping the team contend 
in the playoff race well into September, the Pirates finished with a 79-83 
record, extending their major North American professional sports record 
to 20 consecutive losing seasons. The Pirates would then use the Zoltan 
again the following season, this time not only ending their losing seasons 
streak but clinching a wild card spot in the 2013 playoffs.[5] The Zoltan 
was still popular enough in Pittsburgh that when the Pittsburgh Steelers 
signed Romanian-born punter Zoltan Mesko in September 2013, Mesko declined 
to do the Zoltan himself for reporters, feeling that it's the Pirates hand 
signal and didn't want to take it from them (he was released in late October 
